{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AmericanTypewriter;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 As Colonel Taggart awoke one morning from uneasy dreams he found himself transformed in his bed into a weeping wreck.\
He was overcome with grief, and sobbed mightily. It was a grief that knew no bounds, that was limitless and relentless. Time lost meaning. He was trapped in an eternal now of endless despair.\
But time did pass, and his tears dried. And, in the furnace of that grief that went beyond space and time, he became something other than Taggart.\
He raised himself in his bed, and swung his feet to the floor. At that moment, as clear as day, he knew that he would resign his commission. He would diminish, and return to civilian life.\
The unwavering commitment he had to the military, to the country, and to the Right Thing, had somehow unravelled. It had unravelled in a rather spectacular and abrupt manner. What had seemed impossible last night seemed inevitable this morning: he would leave the military.\
Like everything else in the military, there was a protocol for leaving. And one did not become a colonel without mastering the protocols. Taggart, indeed, was a master of protocols, and, sitting on his bed, he began to plan his departure.\
Years of being in the military had colored his thinking: everything was a battle campaign. In this case, he was performing a tactical retreat.\

\i But what happens after I resign?
\i0  he thought, 
\i what then?
\i0 \
He didn\'92t have a plan after leaving the military. But let\'92s focus on tactics and worry about strategy later. First thing first: resignation letter.\
Actually, the resignation letter was the second thing. First he needed to get dressed and prepared for the day, which he did, with military precision.\
Years earlier the resignation letter was physical, often a single page (brevity is important, especially with a resignation letter. The resignation letter is not a mechanism to air grievances or settle scores \'97 it is merely a mechanism to effect change, specifically with regard to military status). But these days much was done with email.\
\

\f1 General Gates,
\f0 \
\
There was a chain of command, and the resignation letter must be delivered to the commanding officer. In his case, General Gates.\
\

\f1 It is with great regret that I tender my resignation as Colonel of the United States Army, effective immediately.\

\f0 \
Short and sweet \'97 the best way.\
\

\f1 Sincerely,\

\f0 \
He typed his name and clicked \'93Send\'94 without hesitating. He counted to ten slowly.\
The phone rang.\
\'93Taggart.\'94\
\'93Gates.\'94\
He knew as sure as day that Gates would call within ten seconds of him submitting his resignation. He wasn\'92t sure how Gates had managed it, but he seemed to be constantly connected. And to never need sleep.\
\'93I must confess your resignation was entirely unexpected.\'94\
\'93I share that sentiment, sir.\'94\
\'93May I ask why you decided to submit your resignation?\'94\
\'93I find myself unable to fulfill the duties of my rank, sir.\'94\
\'93Have you considered a vacation.\'94\
\'93No, sir.\'94\
\'93Would you consider a vacation?\'94\
\'93No, sir. I am confident a vacation would not change anything.\'94\
\'93Colonel Taggart, I am at a loss for words. I do not exaggerate when I say that you are one of the finest military men I have encountered in my career. I have genuine fears that this project will suffer greatly if you depart. Perhaps you would entertain the possibility of staying long enough to see the project through to its end before resigning?\'94\
\'93With all due respect, sir, my resignation is effective immediately.\'94\
\'93Colonel Taggart, there is a possibility that a Brigadier General position may open as a result of personnel changes. Were I to guarantee a promotion to that rank upon your agreement to remain with the project until it finishes, would you consider staying?\'94\
Brigadier General. The brass ring. If he stayed, he\'92d be a general, and he could retire at a higher pay grade.\
But it would be a mistake to think that his career in the military had been driven by the ambition to become a general, which, in his mind, that was a rather shallow and egotistical motivation. No, his motivation ran much deeper. He was in the military to protect and to serve. Yes, that was a clich\'e9, but clich\'e9s can also ring true. Taggart had a well-developed sense of obligation and responsibility.\
\'93General Gates, I \'91m afraid I must decline your generous offer.\'94 Something about Gates formal diction led Taggart to reply in kind.\
\'93Colonel, forgive me if my offer came across as crass; I know that your devotion to military service transcends mere titles. Rather, my offer was a measure of how valuable that service has been, and how much we would like you to remain.\'94\
\'93Understood, sir. And I appreciate those sentiments. May I add that serving under you has been a pleasure and one of the highlights of my career. You have been an excellent commanding officer.\'94\
\'93Is there anything I can do to convince you to stay, even if only a few more days?\'94\
\'93No, sir. My mind is made up.\'94\
\'93Very well, Taggart. On behalf of the United States Army, I would like to thank you for your years of dedicated service and unwavering loyalty. And I would like to apologize.\'94\
\'93Apologize, sir?\'94\
\'93For what is about to happen.\'94\
\'93Sir?\'94\
A colonel flanked by two MPs suddenly entered the room. Each MP grabbed an arm and pulled them behind his back. The telephone handset clattered on the desk. \'93Gates, what is this?\'94 he shouted into the handset. He felt the handcuffs on his wrists, and heard the click as they engaged.\
He looked at the colonel and noted the name \'93DRYSDALE\'94. The colonel was fumbling with a syringe.\
\'93What is going on?\'94 demanded Taggart.\
Instead of replying, the Colonel inserted the syringe into Taggart\'92s arm. And then everything went black.}