{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 She awoke on a gurney. She was still in Max\'92s lab, hooked up to the medical monitoring equipment.\
\'93How long have I been out?\'94\
\'93A little more than an hour.\'94\
She grunted. \'93For what it\'92s worth, I don\'92t see any juxtaposed images, and I don\'92t see anyone other than you. FYI, I have a mild headache and feel groggy, though I suspect those are side effects of the sedative.\'94\
\'93Let me call Taggart. He wanted to speak with you as soon as you regained consciousness.\'94\
Julia nodded. Max went to the desk, picked up the old-school telephone, and dialed a number.\
\'93She\'92s awake,\'94 he said, and then hung up the phone.\
In a few minutes the door to the lab opened and Colonel Taggart strode in. He looked annoyed.\
\'93Good morning Colonel,\'94 she said. Was it still morning? She wasn\'92t sure. There weren\'92t any windows, and she couldn\'92t see any clocks.\
Taggart neither confirmed nor denied whether it was morning. He launched into a rebuke, \'93You committed a breach of trust. You used the equipment in an unauthorized manner, you violated our agreement.\'94\
It wasn\'92t the time to get into a pissing contest with the Colonel. There were a number of ways she could handle this: she decided the best was an acknowledgement and a reminder.\
\'93Colonel Taggart: it was a poor decision to use the equipment on myself without supervision, and for that I take responsibility. I would like to remind you that the equipment is the corporation\'92s \'97 I see our asset tags on them \'97 and, that as an officer of the corporation, I am within my rights to use said equipment.\'94\
He pursed his lips. \'93You jeopardized the project.\'94\
\'93I think our time is better spent deciding how to move forward rather than assigning blame.\'94 Julia said curtly.\
\'93There are things you don\'92t understand.\'94\
\'93Then explain those things to me.\'94\
Taggart looked like he was about to say something and then thought the better of it.\
\'93I\'92ll need to run this by my superiors,\'94 he said, and strode out of the lab.\
\'93Max, is there anything about the project that you didn\'92t tell me? Is there something I should know?\'94\
\'93I\'92ve told you everything of significance. Like I said earlier, I get the feeling they\'92re not telling me everything they know about the project \'97 they have a strong sense of urgency, but it\'92s completely at odds with the type of work we\'92re doing.\'94\
\'93You said there was a brain wave anomaly you were seeing \'97 is it still there?\'94\
Max checked the scope. The brain waves were normal. \'93I set a trigger to alert us if the anomaly re-appears, but so far it hasn\'92t. It disappeared the moment you passed out. But all your brain waves changed dramatically once you lost consciousness \'97 that was to be expected. Anyway, it hasn\'92t reappeared.\'94\
\'93I wonder if the anomaly was related to me seeing \'91juxtaposed\'92 images.\'94\
\'93It\'92s possible, but we ran no tests to prove or disprove that hypothesis. And I\'92m loath to do those tests if we see anomalous brain waves again. Julia, there\'92s something not right happening.\'94\
\'93That\'92s another thing I wanted to ask you \'97 how could I have described Tyrion so closely never having seen him before? Did I really see him, or was it some projection of my subconscious?\'94\
\'93That was very interesting. I don\'92t think that there\'92s a physical description of Tyrion on paper or on the workstation, so I was surprised that you could describe him so closely. That being said, let\'92s break it down: you said he was about five-foot-eleven, 180 pounds. Clean-shaven, short-cropped hair. What you\'92re describing is the average military person. Although it wasn\'92t explicit, it was implied that Tyrion had some sort of military background. So the apparition was merely an amalgamation of your typical soldier. Your subconscious conjured up a soldier for you . The big surprise is that the apparition was black, and that Tyrion was also black. Blacks make up approximately 13% of the military, so that was either a lucky guess on the part of your subconscious, or maybe I accidentally mentioned he was black.\
\'93You don\'92t believe I \'91saw\'92 anything.\'94\
\'93I believe your mind saw something, but no, I don\'92t believe anything was there, otherwise I would have seen it too.\'94\
\'93Good point.\'94\
\'93Do you believe you saw something?\'94\
\'93I can tell you he looked as real as day to me, but then again I was seeing two images superimposed on each other. My visual field was compromised.\'94\
\'93Have you ever been under the influence of hallucinogens?\'94\
\'93In college, yes. Not since.\'94\
\'93Did Tyrion remind you of those experiences?\'94\
\'93A lot of the hallucinations I saw were simple things: walls breathing, trails, that sort of stuff. Tyrion was not like that at all.\'94\
\'93Hmmm. I wonder if it was a side effect of the procedure.\'94\
\'93That would be the logical guess \'97 my brain acting wonky after it has been adjusted.\'94\
Taggart strode back in the room. \'93General Gates would like a word.\'94\
\'93Is he here?\'94 asked Dr. Max.\
\'93No, he\'92s never here \'97 I\'92ve never met him in person. He\'92ll call within the next few minutes though\'94.\
The phone rang. Taggart walked over, picked up the handset, and jammed a button to put the caller on speakerphone. \'93Taggart here\'94.\
\'93Hello Colonel Taggart, this is General Gates.\'94\
\'93Yes sir!\'94 said Taggart.\
\'93At ease.\'94 Even over the phone Gates had a mellifluous voice, like a kindly grandfather.\
\'93Julia \'97 may I call you Julia? I believe that you had something to tell me.\'94\
\'93General Gates, I used the MRI to draw antennas \'97 I mean antennae \'97 in my brain.\'94\
\'93How many, and what part of the brain?\'94\
Julia mumbled.\
\'93I didn\'92t catch that.\'94 said Gates.\
\'93Eighty, EIGHTY!\'94 Julia said.\
Gates chuckled. \'93You didn\'92t want to stop at one, did you? You had to do all eighty?\'94\
\'93There was a misunderstanding regarding the functioning of the program.\'94\
\'93What part of the brain?\'94\
\'93Limbic system. Throughout all parts of the limbic system.\'94\
Gates sighed. \'93This isn\'92t quite what we planned, but in some ways this is a godsend. We have one subject \'97 had one subject \'97 and now we have a subject again.\'94\
\'93General Gates, with all due respect, I am a civilian; I am 
\i not
\i0  a test subject.\'94\
\'93Ms. Chou, there are aspects of this research that preclude you from returning to civilian life in the near future. Dr. Bernstein: we hadn\'92t fully informed you of many aspects of the research. We didn\'92t want to unnecessarily ... trouble you. But the events of the last 24 hours force us to tell you information which perhaps we should have told you all along.\'94\
\'93The short version is this: we believe that the changes made to your brain enable you to perceive things that may be real.\'94\
\'93Are you saying that when I saw Tyrion it was real? Not a hallucination?\'94\
\'93You saw Captain Tyrion?\'94 asked Gates.\
Max jumped in, \'93She said she saw him. I couldn\'92t see anyone. She gave a physical description that matched Tyrion\'92s. She also saw \'91juxtaposed\'92 images. At the time she was exhibiting anomalous brain waves, so I sedated her.\'94\

\i Technically I, not you, who sedated me. You weren\'92t good with veins.
\i0 \
\'93Max, were you able to record the anomalous brain waves?\'94 asked Gates.\
\'93Yes, they\'92re recorded in the EEG.\'94\
\'93I\'92d be very interested in seeing them later.\'94\
\'93I would like to know what about the research precludes me from returning to work,\'94 said Julia.\
\'93We don\'92t know what\'92s going to happen to you. We\'92ve only had two subjects, one was Captain Tyrion, and you, Julia, are the only person who has seen him since he disappeared.\'94\
\'93Did he manifest any symptoms before his disappearance?\'94\
\'93Yes he did,\'94 said General Gates. \'93His field of vision was distorted, he saw what you refer to as \'91juxtaposed\'92 images. At times he suffered mild headaches. At other times he was overcome with a sense of calm and well-being. Also, he \'91flickered\'92.\'94\
\'93What do you mean by \'91flickered\'92?\'94\
\'93There were people who noticed that the Tyrion would seem to disappear for a fraction of a second and then reappear.\'94\
Max interrupted, \'93Were there any measurement instruments trained on them at the time?\'94\
\'93Yes, but they didn\'92t seem to capture anything of interest.\'94\
Max asked, \'93Did he describe any sensation or events leading up to the flickering? Did he notice the flickering?\'94\
\'93Captain Tyrion said that he had a feeling of absolute serenity. And also that he was completely unaware of flickering.\'94\
\'93Why is the military so interested?\'94\
Taggart jumped in, \'93If they can flicker, maybe they can disappear. If we have soldiers that can become invisible, it makes certain types of infiltration missions much, much easier.\'94\
Gates said, \'93It\'92s something we\'92re very interested in, but not at the cost of losing soldiers. Tyrion was uniquely qualified. You see, he had only a month to live. He suffered \'97 suffers \'97 from a very aggressive form of pancreatic cancer. It had already metastasized to much of his body. He was a good soldier, asked if there were any missions he could perform while he was still able to function. We said there was one. This one. He agreed to do it. Dr. Max, that\'92s why we had such an aggressive schedule \'97 he didn\'92t have much time.\'94\
Dr. Max looked down on the ground. \'93I am so sorry. I had no idea. I am so sorry.\'94\
The room fell awkwardly silent.\
Gates spoke again, \'93Julia, you asked when you could return to civilian life. This is what we plan to do: we\'92ll keep you under observation. Captain Tyrion exhibited symptoms within ten days or less. If we don\'92t observe any change within one week, we\'92ll assume that the antennae, for whatever reason, don\'92t work. We\'92ll debrief you, and then send you back. But you will need to report for a medical every week.\'94\
\'93I must contact my work and let them know that I\'92ll be gone.\'94\
\'93Of course. The project is classified, so you can not mention any details for the project. You must not mention that your brain has been adjusted via an MRI, you must not mention the antennae. You may say that you\'92re working on a classified project and are not sure when you\'92ll be able to return. If people have questions, you may give them Colonel Taggart\'92s contact information.\'94\
\'93Understood.\'94\
Gates continued, \'93There\'92s a room that has a phone that has an outside line; Taggart will bring you there. You\'92ll have a half-hour to make the calls you need. You may use that phone for a half-hour each day. Your calls will be monitored.\'94\
\'93But that\'92s illegal,\'94 objected Julia. \'93When I talk to corporate counsel, I\'92m protected under attorney-client privilege.\'94\
\'93Evidence obtained is inadmissible in a court of law, Julia, but you\'92re on Federal property here, and we work under a parallel legal system, military tribunals etc.... The ground rules are slightly different, especially when working with State secrets, in which category this project falls.\'94\
Gates\'92s voice softened, \'93Julia, we\'92re on the same team here. We\'92re not after you. We want you to succeed, in more ways than you can imagine. You are, at this moment, incredibly precious: you are the only person who has gone through this procedure and is still around to talk about it. We want to make sure nothing bad happens to you, and if something does happen, we want to be there to help. As soon as possible. I appreciate how difficult it is for a someone of your position to take a sudden and unexpected leave of absence for one week. We\'92re doing our best to accommodate your needs. The use of an outside line for 1/2 hour each day? I had to move earth and heaven to make that happen. Please, Julia, work with us.\'94\
Julia understood. Gates was astute to position it as being part of a team; she believed in teamwork. She believed in trading the individual desire for success and achievement for the team\'92s success and achievement. She was a team player, and she didn\'92t mind when others got the the glory. It paid off, too: she hadn\'92t clawed her way to the top, she had been push-pulled to the top. Her superiors noticed that she played well with others and made things happen, so they pulled her up, and her teammates knew that she was good and hardworking and that they could trust her to acknowledge their successes, so they pushed her up.\
She was surprised by the cult of the CEO \'97 that one man was responsible for the success of the company. In the early days she believed it, that someone like Steve Jobs or Bill Gates were singularly responsible for the success of their companies.\
But her mentor quickly disabused her of that notion: \'93That\'92s bullshit,\'94 he said. \'93You look at any successful CEO. Then you look behind him \'97 he\'92s got a bunch of talented and hard-working people making his success possible. Do you think he\'92d still be as successful if those people weren\'92t there? Of course not. We like the idea of heroes, of individuals who can perform herculean tasks. But it\'92s not an individual who wins a battle, it\'92s an army. It\'92s not Achilles, it\'92s the 92nd Infantry Division. That\'92s not to say that the CEO is merely an ornament \'97 it\'92s an important job, and he can tank the company if he\'92s not doing it correctly \'97 but it\'92s not the be-all and end-all that we like think it is.\'94\
Julia thought for a second. \'93Okay,\'94 she said. She wasn\'92t sure, but it seemed like Taggart breathed a big sigh of relief. \'93But I need that half-hour right now. And, since I don\'92t have my laptop nor my cell, I\'92ll need a pad of paper and a pen.\'94\
Max said, \'93Would one of these lab notebooks do?\'94\
A lab notebook? Julia loved lab notebooks, with their acid-free paper and their grid lines \'97 perfect for taking notes and drawing charts. In fact, she used her lab notebook her first year as a sales rep.\

\i One of the more senior sales reps brought her a gift on her birthday. It was a small notebook with elegant backing. She had said to Julia, \'93Look, I know you\'92re an engineer, you know you\'92re an engineer, but part of this game we\'92re in, this game of sales, is to use subtle cues that you\'92re in the same tribe as the person to whom you\'92re selling. And that tribe is the \'93executive\'94 tribe and not the \'93engineering-and-scientist\'94 tribe. You\'92re going to be well groomed and you\'92re going to have the type of notebook that your customer would have if he was a woman. And let me tell you something: that notebook isn\'92t going to be a lab notebook. It\'92ll be small, elegant, and probably in a leather case.\'94\
Contrary to what she read in the business journals, she discovered that the women she worked with were always helpful and always looked out for her. It was a stereotype that women were out to get each other, and that men did better because they played on sports teams.\
When she spoke to her mentor about how her fellow women were helpful rather than competitive, he said, \'93\'92women aren\'92t team players\'92 is the crap that guys tell each other so they don\'92t feel bad about not promoting a woman who\'92s better than them,\'94 said her mentor. \'93People are people, most of them lack the discipline to separate personal feelings from objective results. Whether I want to have a BBQ with someone is completely irrelevant to evaluating how effective they are. That smelly guy who consistently brings in more and more revenue every quarter? Promote him. That great guy who everybody likes and who always has a smile but can never close a deal? Let him go. Really. You\'92re doing him a disservice by keeping him around. He has a better career waiting in the wings.\'94\
Her mentor was on a roll, \'93You know why blacks do so well in sports? Because in sports there\'92s a rigorous metric for achievement: RBIs, three-pointers, assists. If you\'92re good, it\'92s clear, and if you suck, that\'92s clear, too. There\'92s not much wiggle room in professional sports. But in corporations? Much too much wiggle room. If we\'92re not careful, we let our biases make bad judgements for us. Just because someone went to the same Ivy League school as you did does not make them better rep than the Latino guy busting his butt. Keep in mind what T.J. Watson Jr. once said, \'91just because I didn\'92t like a guy never stopped me from promoting him.\'92\'94\

\i0 Julia said, \'93Yes, I\'92d love a lab notebook \'97 thank you so much Max.\'94\
Max passed her a notebook along with a blue ballpoint pen.\
\'93Colonel Taggart, would you be kind enough to direct me to the room with the telephone?\'94\
Taggart nodded, and they exited the lab and headed down the hallway and made a quick left and to the right was a small, windowless (every room was windowless). She sat down and dialed her executive assistant\'92s phone number. Julia didn\'92t bother memorizing phone numbers anymore, but she knew her EA\'92s number by heart. For the next 29 minutes Julia had a high-bandwidth exchange with her EA, scheduling events, pushing things out that could be. And Julia wrote in her notebook constantly. It reminded her of the old days, before cellphones and laptops, when everything was written down in a notebook. There was something viscerally satisfying about taking pen to paper, something that computers and tablets were never quite able to match, not even close.\
Taggart knocked on the door when her time was up. \'93I must go now. Remember, schedule a call with the lead counsel tomorrow morning at this time. I\'92m afraid this is one call you won\'92t be able to participate in, not because I don\'92t want you to, but because I think your presence will break the law. I\'92ll call you tomorrow morning same time and you can patch me in to the counsel.\'94\
She hung up the phone and turned to Taggart, \'93It\'92s almost impossible doing my job without Internet access \'97 is there any way we can loosen the restrictions and let me use the phone and the laptop?\'94\
Taggart shook his head, \'93I\'92m afraid that\'92s not possible.\'94\
Julia nodded. She had a good sense when she could push people, and when it wouldn\'92t make a difference. In this case she knew it wouldn\'92t make a difference \'97 they\'92d never let her use her phone. In one week, when she was back in the office, she\'92d have her phone. In the meantime, she\'92d try her best to appreciate being off the grid.\
They walked back in silence to Max\'92s lab. The next 8 hours consisted of batteries of tests designed to uncover any malfunction in her brain.\
\'93If something is wrong, you must tell me,\'94 said Julia to Max. \'93If there\'92s some disability that would prevent me from fulfilling my role as CEO, I\'92d need to know as soon as possible in order to prepare a transition plan. This is not about feelings, Max. This is business.\'94\
She locked eyes with Max. \'93Okay?\'94\
He looked directly in her eyes and nodded. \'93Okay,\'94 he said.\
Towards the end of the day she made a small mistake on one of the memorization quizzes, inverting the order of two items, and she also had a slightly more difficult time balancing on one foot with her eyes closed than she had had that morning.\
\'93There\'92s nothing wrong that I can see,\'94 said Max. \'93The slight degradation is a normal response to end-of-day fatigue.\'94\
\'93Degradation?\'94\
\'93You know \'97 you were flawless in the morning, but now in the evening you made a small mistake with the memorization and balancing.\'94\
\'93Cut me some slack!\'94 joked Julia. Max smiled.\
Julia yawned. \'93These tests are tiring me out. Are we done for the day? I think I\'92m ready for bed. Or at least the cot.\'94 she said, eyeing the cot in the lab.\
\'93There\'92s one piece of equipment I forgot to show you, but it\'92s of utmost importance\'94 said Max.\
\'93What?\'94\
He opened a cabinet drawer and pointed inside, \'93the coffeemaker! Coffee is to the left, filters to the right. Help yourself.\'94\
Max put his stuff away and headed out the door. Julia lay down on the couch. Sleep came easily.}