{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 It wasn\'92t hard getting Top Secret clearance \'97 there were tedious chores, such as getting fingerprinted, filling out a 20-page questionnaire, and then waiting while the FBI interviewed her friends to discover if she had a gambling problem, a drug problem, or anything that might lend herself to blackmail.\
She kept busy. The good thing about being a CEO: there was no shortage of work to be done.\
When the clearance finally came through, she summoned Ned to her office. \'93Alright, now you can tell me everything.\'94\
He said, \'93You already know everything that I know.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93That\'92s pretty much all I know: that they think a guy died, and that it was using our equipment.\'94\
\'93Then what does the Top Secret clearance buy me?\'94\
\'93It buys this: I can tell you, \'91that\'92s all I know\'92.\'94\
\'93I thought you ran the division.\'94\
\'93I do, but it\'92s a lot of military stuff. This particular unit is fairly opaque \'97 other than the fact that they\'92re pulling in good money from the Department of Homeland Security, I don\'92t know much about what\'92s going on.\'94\
\'93C\'92mon Ned, that sounds dangerously close to negligence.\'94\
\'93I know; look, I wanted to find out more about what they\'92re doing, but I was being blocked at every turn. It\'92s not good enough to have clearance, you must have need-to-know clearance.\'94\
\'93And you didn\'92t have that?\'94\
\'93I\'92m a manager, not a scientist. They didn\'92t think I needed to know. I pushed pretty hard once, too, but they made it clear that they might pull the contract, and I didn\'92t want to be the guy who killed the goose that laid the golden egg.\'94\
He continued, \'93Look, I screwed up, I know. But I trusted my guys. They said it was okay, they said nobody should get hurt. I\'92ve been with them for years, I\'92ve been to their houses, I know the name of their wives and children. And believe me, these guys are torn up \'97 they can\'92t believe what happened either. One of them said to me, \'91Ned, I can\'92t say more than this, but this shouldn\'92t have happened, we don\'92t quite know what happened, and we may never know what happened.\'92\'94\
\'93How can they not know what happened?\'94\
\'93I don\'92t know! Crazy, isn\'92t it?\'94\
\'93Who from Homeland is in charge of the project?\'94\'94\
\'93General Randall W. Gates.\'94\
\'93Have I met him?\'94\
\'93Probably not. He\'92s not much of a meet-and-greet guy. He\'92s strictly business. Smart, too. Crisp.\'94\
\'93I want to meet with him.\'94\
Ned gave a funny look.\
\'93What, you\'92ve never met him?\'94\
\'93I\'92ve met some of his people, but I\'92ve never met him.\'94\
\'93Well, give me someone I can meet.\'94\
\'93There\'92s a bird colonel. Taggart.\'94\
\'93Would you be kind enough to set up a meeting?\'94\
\'93Sure,\'94 he said, \'93I\'92ll do it.\'94\
She knew he\'92d do it. he knew he was in the hot seat, and he believed that she would protect him, that she had his back. And he was right, too \'97 she would protect him, or at least do her best. She found that when people had a guardian it inspired a fierce sense of loyalty. Ned would do what it took to get her to see Colonel Taggart.}