## The Eyes of the Blind Shall Be Opened

She knew it was going to get ugly.

It was always ugly. Even when it wasn't ugly, when things went her way, it was
never perfect — it never _quite_ went her way.

And that seemed to bring out the best in her. She thought of her sister, fat,
dumb, and happy. Well, maybe not happy. Her sister's husband had let himself go
after the second kid. Her sister would say, "I married a Greek God, but now I'm
married to a goddamn Greek!" and then laugh.

But you could tell there was an undercurrent of dissatisfaction. Sure, her
sister laughed, but that didn't mean everything was okay. Her husband had gotten
fat. And, along with the fat, came a certain negligence with regard to grooming:
his clothing was rumpled, he always wore t-shirts, and his shaving had become
inconsistent (which is not a problem if you're a blond Norwegian, but is a
problem if you're a swarthy Greek).

Her sister's husband looked like an overworked Brooklyn building superintendent.

She was surprised how easily her sister had come to terms with it. At times she
wanted to shake her and say, "Lori, look at him, look at Dino! Is that who you
want to be married to? Do you want to be married to a sweaty fat bald
cigar-smoker who on a good day remembers to shower?"

God, Dino drove her crazy. He used to be handsome, too. And quite the clothes
horse. When he was in his twenties and thirties he was an Adonis: chiseled
looks, and deep brown eyes you could swim in. But halfway in his forties things
took a sharp left turn for the worse. He hadn't aged well.

It wasn't about the aging. Well, it was a bit about the aging, but also how you
dealt with it. Some people just gave up and let themselves go. But it didn't
have to be that way. A small number of people were fighters. Yes, your body
wants to change shape, and your skin wants to wrinkle, and your hair wants to
turn white, but those are things you can fix, and, if not fix, mitigate.

She had taken care of herself. It wasn't easy, she'd grant that. Gym every
morning: treadmill, bicycle, and then the half-hour with her trainer.

Her trainer — God he was hot. She had been working with him for the last two
years. There was a period when their relationship began to become personal, when
he shared about the overwhelming sense of loneliness that sometimes strikes him
in mid-morning when he has no clients. She wanted to reach out and touch him,
caress his head in her bosom, tell him that things were okay.

But things shifted, and he never mentioned that again. She wished she had
reached out to him that one time, that maybe their relationship would have
broken through the client-trainer boundary and become something more.

She felt her face. Her forehead was smooth — the Botox was working well, and
next treatment was three weeks away — but she was beginning to get a turkey
wattle. Botox wouldn't fix that. Maybe she should try the surgery, a little
nip-and-tuck to put things in their place. She had to be careful though — the
last thing she wanted was to become one of those grotesque people who take
plastic surgery too far. Still have the surgery, but keep a little bit of
wattle, not too much.

When she was twenty she would look at the plastic-surgeries-gone-wrong section
of the gossip rags, gripped with a morbid fascination. "I'll never get plastic
surgery! It's so fake — I'll never do it! I'll grow old gracefully, like Grace
Kelly."

It's easy to make pronouncements like that when you're twenty years old when
your skin is as smooth as a Wisconsin lake at early dawn, but your perspective
changes when your in your fifties and your skin is starting to sag and wrinkle.

She looked at her hands. The hands were the give-aways. That's the trick the
carnies used to judge people's age — the hands. Over time the hands lose their
baby fat, and the bones and veins become more pronounced. And it didn't help
that there was a big liver spot in the middle of the back of her hand.

She was in the elevator. Up, up, and up. Why were the executive offices always
near the top floor? It meant executives spent more time in elevators. In a
perfectly efficient world, the executives would be in the ground floor. It was
about status: the view overlooking the city, the corner office. It was easy to
dismiss these things as unimportant, as her father the engineer had a tendency
to do. But these status symbols were important to some people, and thus they
were important to her, too.

She got off at her floor. She checked her phone: one minute early. Good. She
detested being late. It was a lack of discipline that made people late. Her
sister was chronically late. It didn't mean her sister was a bad person — quite
the opposite: her sister was a wonderful person. She loved her sister. But
loving someone didn't mean you turned a blind eye to their faults.

She opened the door. Everyone was there. Good. They were a good team. It was
going to be a tough meeting.

"Gentlemen," she said, and then nodded to Rebecca, "Lady."

She took her seat. "We're all here. Let's start, shall we?"

The meeting began. A legal issue in a business unit, which, if not handled
correctly, could force her to resign or, even worse, sink the company.

A bull-faced man was talking. The head of global sales, a big blustering man. He
began talking louder, then pointed at Ned, the man who ran the business unit
with the legal problem.

She stepped in, "You raise a good point: it's worthwhile to explore what led up
to this issue, and we'll examine that in a later meeting. Let's focus on how to
fix the problem right now."

Dealing with him was tricky — he was an alpha male-type. It meant he needed to
be put in his place periodically. Surprisingly, it seemed that he _wanted_ to be
put in his place: it confirmed the existing hierarchy. But putting him in his
place needed to be done with the utmost delicacy, without impugning his
character or diminishing his dignity. He was good at what he did, and it would
be unfortunate to lose him.

It helped that she was a woman; he didn't feel threatened by a woman, but he had
had a hard time being put in his place by a man. The previous CEO was a man, and
that made for some very rocky meetings: he had resigned on at least one
occasion.

Yes, that was the dirty secret of feminism: sometimes being a woman made it
_easier_ to be the leader of men because it short-circuited the male competitive
drive.

The meeting continued. She mostly listened. She did step in once when she sensed
the beginning of a feeding frenzy around Ned. She didn't like when people ganged
up on each other. It was bad for business and rarely accomplished anything.
There was a hint of savage when it happened, and she had a strong dislike of
anything savage.

In some ways handling the problem was easy because there were many constraints.
Obeying the law, for example. They didn't have a choice. They needed to appear
as cooperative as possible, so no document-shredding, no email-deleting. The
best approach always was, "We're sorry, we made a mistake, we're going to do our
best to make it better."

The solution was simple: they were going to spend lots of money making things
better. Lots of money. Not enough to bankrupt the company, but enough to hurt.
The bonuses were going to be small this year, and everyone in the room knew
that. There was the miasma of sadness and loss in the room.

Her mentor, the previous CEO, had said to her, "Remember: when you have a
problem, and it can be fixed with money, you don't have a problem — you have an
expense." Right now she had an expense. A very big expense.

The purpose of the meeting had been to achieve consensus, and consensus had been
achieved.

The meeting adjourned. She asked, "Ned, could you please stay."

Everyone else in the room had left. Ned began stammering, saying that
accidentally the waivers had been signed.

She waved her hand, "Let's not worry about the waivers for a minute. I have a
few questions about what was going on."

Ned said that he couldn't talk about it, that it was a project for the military
and that it was top-secret.

She said, "Ned, I'm not asking you to reveal anything that's classified. I'm
merely trying to understand what exactly happened."

He seemed relieved, then nervous.

She said simply, "The notes we have indicated that someone died. Did someone
die?"

He said, "Yes. No. We're not sure."

"Was there a specific person or persons who died?"

"There was one specific person who may or may not have died."

"Is there a body?"

"No."

"There's no body?"

"Not really, no."

"So he or she might be walking around in New York somewhere."

Ned chuckled and then stopped. "He's a he — I think I can say that — and he's
definitely not walking around New York."

"Was the body accidentally destroyed as part of the experiment?"

"'Destroyed' is probably not quite the right word. Maybe 'transformed' or
'transmogrified'"

"The body was transformed into something else, something not a body."

"Yes."

She put her hand on his forearm and leaned in conspiratorially, a somewhat
calculated move on her part, smiled and asked, "Was what he was transformed into
animal, mineral, or vegetable?"

He smiled back and said, "None of the above."

"Really?"

"Really."

It was at that moment that she decided she was going to learn more about what
exactly this project was. She knew that this was irresponsible on her part, that
she was tasked with running a company and the last thing she should allow
herself to do is get lost in the weeds to satisfy her curiosity. Two weeks.
She'd time-box her exploration to two weeks, so it wouldn't get out of hand.

"Ned," she asked, "how do I go about getting top-secret clearance?"

## The Vale of Tears

It wasn't hard getting Top Secret clearance — there were tedious chores, such as
getting fingerprinted, filling out a 20-page questionnaire, and then there was
the waiting while the FBI interviewed her friends to discover if she had a
gambling problem, a drug problem, or anything that might lend her to blackmail.

She kept busy. The good thing about being a CEO: there was no shortage of work
to be done. She spent a lot of time in planes.

When the clearance finally came through, she summoned Ned to her office.
"Alright, now you can tell me everything."

He said, "You already know everything that I know."

"What?"

"That's pretty much all I know: that they think a guy died, and that it was
using our equipment."

"Then what does the Top Secret clearance buy me?"

"It buys this: I can tell you, 'that's all I know'."

"I thought you ran the division."

"I do, but it's a lot of military stuff. This particular unit is fairly opaque —
other than the fact that they're pulling in good money from the Department of
Homeland Security, I don't know much about what's going on."

"C'mon Ned, that sounds dangerously close to negligence."

"I know; look, I wanted to find out more about what they're doing, but I was
being blocked at every turn. It's not good enough to have clearance, you must
have need-to-know clearance."

"And you didn't have that?"

"I'm a manager, not a scientist. They didn't think I needed to know. I pushed
pretty hard once, too, but they made it clear that they might pull the contract,
and I didn't want to be the guy who killed the goose that laid the golden egg."

He continued, "Look, I screwed up, I know. But I trusted my guys. They said  it
was okay, they said nobody should get hurt. I've been with  them for years, I've
been to their houses, I know the name of their wives and children. And believe
me, these guys are torn up — they can't believe what happened either. One of
them said to me, 'Ned, I can't say more than this, but this shouldn't have
happened, we don't quite know what happened, and we may never know what
happened."

"How can they not know what happened?"

"Crazy, isn't it?"

"Who's the customer? Who's running the champion?"

"General Randall W. Gates."

"Have I met him?"

"Probably not. He's not much of a meet-and-greet guy. He's strictly business.
Smart, too. Crisp."

"I want to meet with him."

Ned gave a funny look.

"What, you've never met him?"

"I've met some of his people, but I've never met him."

"Well, give me someone I can meet."

"There's a bird colonel. Taggart."

"Would you be kind enough to set up a meeting?"

"Sure," he said, "I'll do it."

She knew he'd do it. he knew he was in the hot seat, and he believed that she
would protect him, that she had his back. And he was right, too — she would
protect him, or at least do her best. She found that when people  had a guardian
it inspired a fierce sense of loyalty. Ned would do what it took to get her to
see Colonel Taggart.

---

It was a week later, and they were in an army base in New Jersey.

"Pardon my surprise, but I thought Congress had shut the base down a couple of
years ago."

Colonel Taggart looked across the table at her and said, "They _did_ shut it
down a couple of years ago. We're the clean-up crew." then he smiled to himself.

He continued, "I know you're busy; I know I'm busy, so why did you come all the
way here?"

"I need to know what happened."

"The people who need to know already know."

"Colonel Taggart," she said, "I'm asking you to appreciate the position I'm in:
I'm the final custodian of risk. When someone dies using one of our products, we
need to make sure that we're doing the utmost to make sure it doesn't happen
again. Except I can't make sure it doesn't happen again because no one can tell
me what happened and even worse no is sure what happened."

"The people who need to know, already know," he repeated.

"I'm shutting down the project," she said.

That got his attention. She knew she had a hunch she'd have to play that card.

"You can't shut down the project."

"Actually I can," she said. "My counsel has reviewed the project's contract."

"There's a penalty for early termination," he sputtered.

"Yes, there's a steep financial penalty. It'll certainly hurt the company," she
said. "I don't see another choice. I can't have a second death. We need to
understand what's going on."

She lowered her tone, "Colonel, in civilian life there are terrible
repercussions when people die. People go to jail, companies are shuttered. As
the steward of this company, I can't allow a second person to die on my watch.
Not only is it harmful to the company, but it's not the right thing."

The colonel held his jaw tight. "What do you think you'll find? A smoking gun? A
device that has a tendency to explode? Loose, uninsulated wiring that
electrocutes people? There's no carelessness, no negligence."

"Let me be the judge of that."

"You're not getting project clearance."

"That's your decision, Colonel."

"And you're not shutting the project down, either."

"That is my decision, not yours."

He began talking loudly about national security and ground-breaking research.
She let him go on.

"I think we're done here, Colonel."

The Colonel shook his head. "Don't touch the project."

"I'll do what I must to protect the company."

She picked up her things and walked out the door. The meeting hadn't gone as she
had hoped, but if the Colonel was banking on her not having the balls to shut
down the project, he was wrong. She was willing to take the hit. Too risky. The
board would back her, too. Besides, her mentor was now the chairman. He
understood risk.

She dashed off a quick email to Ned saying to prepare to shut down the project,
then got in the car.

She hadn't even left the base when her phone rang. She looked at the callerid —
it said, "911". She answered it.

The voice on the other end said, "Hello Julia, I'm General Gates."

"General Gates? What an unexpected pleasure."

"Thank you Julia. I'm going to ask you a favor — 500 feet from where you are
now, there's a blue hangar on the left. The doors are open. I want you to drive
through the doors."

"I'd like to ask about the..."

General Gates interrupted her, "We can talk when you're in the blue hangar, not
before. Thank you for your consideration."

"Ok."

General Gates had a strange voice, oddly melodic, and yet not quite human. It
sounded like ten people saying the exact same thing at the exact same time. Or
maybe a hundred people.

She found the hangar, took a left, and drove through its double doors.

The hangar was dark, but as her car passed through the doors two things
happened: 3 overhead lights flicked on, and the doors closed.

"General, the doors are closing behind me."

There was a pause. She looked at her phone: no signal.

Suddenly there were five bars. And her phone rang again. "911" again.

She answered it. "What was that about?"

"You spoke with Taggart about risk and about mitigation. In my position it's all
about risk and mitigation. Risks that to you may appear inconsequential, but to
me border on gross negligence. For example, we're talking on your cellphone,
right?"

"Right!"

"And your provider is Verizon, right?"

"Right!"

"And we're talking over Verizon's network, right?"

"Right!"

"Wrong. We're not talking on Verizon's network. This hangar is a Faraday cage —
no cell phone traffic comes in or out of this hangar. The electromagnetic waves
can't break past the cage. In this hangar is a fake cell phone tower. The  fake
cell phone tower masquerades as a Verizon tower, and is connected to a secure
fiber trunk line  which encrypts all communications coming inside our outside
the building."

"What?"

"It's about mitigating risk. We don't want our conversation eavesdropped. If it
is eavesdropped, we want it encrypted so they can't make sense out of it. In
spite of those precautions, I'm taking a grave risk speaking to you."

The general continued. "Our initial conversation took place over the public
network. That will be the last time we will have a conversation on a public
network."

"What if I need to get in touch with you?"

"You will not get in touch with me; I will get in touch with you."

She thought to herself for a second, and then grunted.

"You will not shut down the project."

She laughed. She said, "I've already had this conversation with Colonel
Taggart."

"I am not Taggart, and you will not shut this project down."

"General Gates, with all due respect this project is a disaster waiting to
happen, and my company can't afford a disaster."

"Julia, you mentioned you wanted to understand what happened to the project. We —
I — are prepared to give you access to the project, to allow you to talk with
the scientists, but there are things you must understand."

"Yes?"

"You may not repeat anything that the scientists tell you. You may not repeat
what one scientist on the project has told you to another scientist on the
project. You may not 'hint' to anyone anything about the project. You may not
mention that you've been given access to the project. You may not tell Ned that
you've been given access to the project. You may not write anything down about
the project. You may not write notes on your phone or your computer. You may not
punch in addresses to navigate to on your phone, GPS, or computer. You are
familiar with the blackout period leading up to the release of a company's
financials? This is similar, except that it's much blacker, and it never ends.
Are we clear?"

"General, this seems a bit overboard..."

He interrupted again. "Are we clear?"

"We are clear, as clear as an azure sky of deepest summer."

General Gates chuckled. "Don't think that Clockwork Orange reference went
unnoticed. The thing to remember is that things didn't work out well for Alex,
but we want them to work out well for you. Hew to the path, Julia; it's quite
important."

"I will, sir." She said. "I need to know the next step."

He chuckled.

"I need to know what I can expect, and when I can expect it. I need to know when
I'll have access to the project."

Her mentor had said, "Always ask 'when?'. If they can't tell you, then ask them,
'When will you be able to tell me when?'"

"Fair enough, Julia. Monday, two weeks from today, A man will meet you at 8am in
your office. You will leave your cellphone at your office. He will be driving a
windowless van. You will sit in the back of the van. It will be comfortable, but
there will be no windows. You will be driven in the van for approximately 2
hours. You will have six hours to interview the scientists on the project.

The phone went dead. No bars. The hangar doors behind her opened up. She backed
out of the hangar, and continued her drive to the airport.

---

She sat in coach. She travelled mostly in coach, sometimes in business class,
but mostly in coach. She wanted to set the example for her company. Frugal. She
had seen some companies go overboard, "sucking on the corporate teat," was how
her mentor had described it.

She didn't begrudge her people flying business, but never first class, not even
on the long Asia flights. If they used their points to upgrade, well that was
their prerogative. But the company was only going to pay for business class.

It was curious: Sales and Marketing tended to spend proportionally much larger
amounts on flights, meals, entertainment, conferences, than the engineers and
scientists, who spent at times unbelievably little. But the scientists and
engineers would kill you on the capital expenditures. Engineering was expensive.
Salaries were much of it, but capital expenditures was a close second.

She thought of the head of Global Sales. He always travelled business class. He
was a large man, and business class made a big difference.

She smiled. She couldn't help but like John. Heck, that's one of the reasons he
was so effective in Sales. He could say the most outrageous things and, with a
wink and a smile, get away with it.

She frequently travelled with John when they called upon their enterprise
customers. Sometimes she'd fly in business class with John, but other times she
sat back in coach.

He didn't like that, when she sat back in coach. He didn't like that, but not
enough to change his ticket, so she used that time to work on other things,
sometimes personnel issues, sometimes financial.

He was a warm person, and she was reserved. He was drawn to that, the
reservation. She was never quite within his grasp, and it made him try harder to
make her like him.

It wasn't sexual, her relationship, not sexual at all. There was one time, too
late, she had been tired, and besides nothing had happened. Nothing at all.

Their relationship wasnm't sexual, but he yearned for something from her. Was it
the unconditional love of a mother? Was it acknowledgement of his talent?

She wasn't stingy with her praise, but she wasn't over-the-top, either. Early in
her career she tended to be over-the-top, but it merely debased the currency of
her praise, and she adjusted accordingly.

She made it clear that he was valued, not only in those _pro forma_ yearly
performance appraisals, but more importantly in the special way when you come to
someone with a problem. Earlier last week, for example, she walked into his
office and said, "John, we're having trouble in Support with the EMC account —
the Support organization is fixing some of it on their end, but I'm wondering if
you could smooth any waves on the executive side before it gets out of hand?"

Asking people for help was important — it helped made them feel valued. But it
had to be something you couldn't do yourself — "Could you please get me a cup of
coffee?" did not engender feelings of being appreciated.

And there was the mom-thing. For better or worse, when younger men reported to
you, they projected feelings about their mother onto you. It was a tricky dance:
on one hand,  in a strange way, they loved you, they trusted you. On another
hand, a professional relationship was not a mother-son relationship — those are
different beasts. And you needed your guard up.

She remembered one particularly difficult employee. Only after he had left the
company did she discover that he had been estranged from his mother for the last
ten years. Sigh. There was a reason to keep one's private and professional lives
separate, but some people could not but help drag their emotional baggage into
work, and this employee was one of them.

She remembered being in her mentor's office, "I'm having a problem with an
employee."

He said, "Close the door."

After the door was closed, he said, "What's going on Julia?"

"He's disruptive at the office. He's inappropriate with customers, and," she
paused, and then blurted, "He undermines my authority. He interrupts me
constantly at meetings. And other ways, too."

"Other ways?"

"Two of my other reps came to me and said that he said that the only reason I
got the job was because..."

"Yes?"

"because you and I were having an affair," she blurted out.

Her mentor twitched, "That's what they're saying?"

"That's what _he_ is saying."

They both sat in silence. There never had been anything sexual between them. She
was originally drawn to him because of his hands — his hands reminded her  of
her father's hands: strong but not too rough. And other things about him
reminded her of her father: he was gentle but also firm. She had reported to him
early in her career, and they clicked right away, and he took her under his
wing. She couldn't explain it, but somehow she _trusted_ him from day one. And
he trusted her.

He spoke up, "As disturbing as this is, this type of salacious rumor-mongering
is not a good enough reason to terminate someone. It's a lesser sin than
undermining your authority in front of the other subordinates — that is bad. Is
there anything else he has done?"

"He once set me up for an ambush."

"How so?"

"He arranged a meeting between him, me, and his second biggest client. One of
the topics he asked me to bring up was to migrate the client from the old
B-Style contract to the new C-style contract. When I brought it up, the client
was so angry that he walked out of the meeting. I found out later that he _knew_
the client was adamantly opposed to changing the contract, but he had never told
me. He set me up."

"How is he as a sales rep?"

"He's mediocre, but he's not incompetent."

Her mentor paused. "He's probably not worth transferring to another group. Have
you spoken with him?"

"Yes. And I've put him on a performance plan, too."

"Good. That was my next question. And he still undermines you?"

"Yes."

"That's a problem. We can't have that. It makes you look weak, and your other
subordinates may wonder why you're not doing anything about it. He is one of
your reps, right? Has a quota? Bump it up."

"Bump it up?"

"Bump it up enough so that he can't make it. And use that as grounds for
dismissal. Also, you'll need to justify bumping up the quota, so give him a few
extra accounts. Give him dead ones, that he has no chance of selling into. If
he's a miracle worker and brings in those accounts, that's great — you'll have a
bigger bonus that quarter. But use that as a reason to bump up his quota again.
He'll be gone in three months, six months on the outside."

"I wish I could just fire him"

"Yeah, in the old days it was easier getting rid of the bad eggs, unless they
were union. If they were union it was next to impossible to get rid of them.
With him, you need to be careful — you don't want to give him grounds for a
lawsuit when he's dismissed. You want to make it look like we've been fair and
even-handed, and we dismisshim for performance reasons. It has to look fair,
that we followed procedures. It works like this: you know this guy is bad news;
I know this guy is bad news, and the guy probably suspects he's bad news. He
does more harm than good to the corporation. But knowing someone is bad news
isn't quantifiable, it doesn't lend itself as a reason to dismiss. We can't
write 'Bad News' on a piece of paper, stick it in his personnel file, and then
dismiss him. Instead, we play the game: we set performance expectations, show
that he hasn't met them, and only then dismiss him. We protect the company from
retaliation."

He added, "There's something you should know about firing people — it never
feels good afterwards. I'm always haunted by doubt — maybe there's something I
could have done to salvage the situation. Firing someone is always the last
resort, only to be used when all other options have been exhausted. In this
case, I think firing is the right choice."

They sat in silence a little longer.

"Anything else?" he asked.

She shook her head. "Thanks," she said.

He nodded.

---

The week flew by. And advantage of being CEO was that there was no end of work
to be done. It bled a little bit into the weekend, but she sequestered work to
very specific time periods. It allowed her to be responsive and still preserve
time for herself.

The 40-hour work week did not apply to CEOs, financiers, shop owners, high-level
executives, sales reps, scientists, or most professions it seemed. It was an
illusion, an aspiration. She remembered the first-time she saw the book titled,
"The 4-hour Work Week" — she almost burst out laughing. It was for sale in a
bookstore in an airport. She looked around — clearly the book's target audience
were harried businessmen and businesswomen hoping to magically free up time. It
was similar to the tabloids in the supermarket check-out that touted, "The Ice
Cream diet: eat all the ice cream you want and still lose weight!" They were con
jobs that differed only in their sophistication.

She had cleared her schedule for all of Monday. She had been at work since 7am
polishing some last minute details. At 8am sharp she received a call from the
security desk saying someone was here to see her.

She put everything away and went downstairs. She was surprised to find that the
person waiting for her was not a man dressed like a Secret Service agent with
black sunglasses. Instead, it was a young women dressed casually.

"I'll be your driver today," she said. They exited the building together; the
van was parked in front.

"Before we leave, I'll need your cell phone, your tablet, your laptop, and any
other electronic device you might have. You may want to turn them off before you
give them to me — they will most likely drain their batteries searching for a
signal."

Julia turned her cellphone off and her laptop and gave both of them to the
driver, who put them in a briefcase-sized black box.

"Faraday cage?" Julia asked.

The driver nodded.

"I need to ask you one more time if there's any electronic device that you have
forgotten to give me. I must also remind you that failure to turn over an
electronic device constitutes a violation of the Patriot Act, for which the
penalty can be fine or imprisonment. Do I have all your electronic devices?"

"You have all my electronic devices."

"Good." The drive slid open the side panel of the van. The van had two rows
seats and no windows. And no magazines.

Julia stepped inside, sat in the front row. There was an opaque barrier between
the inside of the van and the driver in front. She could see nothing outside the
van.

She felt a sense of disorientation — without her laptop, without her cell,
without a window to look out, there was nothing to do. After five minutes she
moved to the longer rear seat, stretched out, and took a nap.

The sliding of the door woke her. "We're here," said the driver.

Julia sat up. She took the mirror out of her purse and checked herself. She
didn't spend much time grooming, and she was spare when it came to make-up, but
it was important not to be unkempt. No bed-hair. Good. She snapped the mirror
shut, put it in her bag, and exited the van.

They were in a large hangar. "What's with the hangars?" she thought to herself.
"It's always a hangar."

"Follow me," said the driver. She walked to the door at the end of the hangar,
waved a badge, and was buzzed in. Inside there was a checkpoint with two armed
soldiers. One soldier was watching them, the other soldier was watching a
screen.

The driver put her hand on a glass panel inset into the desk. A green light
flickered under the glass panel, and a soldier nodded.

"You need to place your hands on the glass. Make sure your prints touch the
surface. You might find it helpful to splay your fingers to that the thumbprints
are visible."

Julia did as the driver instructed. She noticed that the glass was clear, free
of fingerprints or smudges, probably some type of oleophobic material. The green
light flickered, the soldier looked at his screen, then nodded.

"Follow me," said the driver. They walked through a set of double doors into a
corridor.

"Do you need to use the restroom or would you like some water before we begin?"

Julia shook her head.

"Good, then I'll introduce you to the first scientist."

She opened a door to the right and began walking down another hallway, this one
with large glass panels showing the lab to the right. Julia recognized her
company's equipment — the logo was easily identifiable. A man in a labcoat was
adjusting the dials on one of the pieces of equipment.

The driver knocked on the door, and then opened it. "Dr. Bernstein? Ms. Chou is
here to see you."

The scientist, though in his mid-forties, had a boyishness to him. He held up
his hand, "I'll be with you in a second — I just need to make this one setting."

He carefully set the dial, then walked, almost bounced, over to Julia.

"Hi," he said, "You can call me Max. We don't need need to be formal here. Sorry
to keep you waiting, but if I hadn't made that adjustment right then, I would
have had to re-start the experiment, which means I would have lost sixteen
hours."

The driver interrupted, "Dr. Bernstein, please buzz me when you have finished
with Ms. Chou so that I may escort her to the next interview. And, this applies
to you, too, Ms. Chou: please do not discuss any classified information in my
presence."

"Of course, of course," said Dr. Bernstein. "You may call me Max."

The driver nodded and then left the room.

"I always tell her to call me Max, and she insists on calling me Dr. Bernstein,"
said Max. "The military is such an odd organization, so formal. And
hierarchical."

"I must confess I'm pleased to meet you," said Julia. "I've read some of your
papers. The one published in _Nature_ was particularly impressive, as was the
one in _Scientific American_. Some of the more technical aspects were beyond me,
I'm sorry to say."

"You've read my papers?" He noticeably brightened. "Us scientists spend so much
time researching, and then writing papers, but sometimes we wonder if they have
any impact outside our rather small community.  So much work, but the audience
is maybe fifty, maybe a couple of hundred other scientists at most. At times it
feels like stuffing messages in a bottle and throwing them out into the ocean
hoping that someone, somewhere will read it and find it useful."

Julia smiled. She had a genuine interest in her employees. Although she no
longer had time to interview every new hire, she made sure to review their
resumes. And she had a soft spot for scientists and engineers — her father had
been an engineer, and she had been one too at the beginning of her career.
Scientists in some ways  were the easiest to review because publishing was an
important aspect of being  a scientist. She wished that engineers published more —
it enforced a certain clarity of thinking that was too often lacking in
engineering circles. Scholarly publishing,  that is. In the computer science
realm there were too many publications that fell into the
"tabloid-sensationalism" category ("Why Google is scared to death of this new
networking technology!") — heavy on opinion, light on facts, and weak on logic.

Among scientists, however, rigor was prized, and a good article was often
extremely dense on information. Dr. Bernstein's papers were among the best.

"What are you working on?" she asked.

"Oh yes, the project" he said. "Well, the short version is this: we're using
long cycle low-power electromagnetic fields to shape sympathetic receptors in
the human brain."

"Sympathetic?"

"Sympathetic to high frequency electromagnetic waves."

"Not low frequency?"

He smiled. "The human skull is too small to fit an antenna that handles low
frequency waves. And by low frequency, I mean any wavelength under 10GHz. Look,
let's say we wanted to listen to AM Radio, which is 535kHz at the bottom of the
scale, and let's say we  wanted to have a 1/8 length antenna — it would need to
be over 200 feet! We can't fit that in a human skull. Let's try something more
reasonable — let's try a cell phone antenna. Typically the low-end of the cell
phone spectrum is 700MHz, which means the antenna would need to be about two
inches — that's something you can easily fit inside a cell phone case. Actually,
outside the case would be better, but now we're getting way off topic."

She asked, "What affects the length of the antenna?"

"Oh yes, sorry, let me backtrack. I was talking about frequency, which is
inversely proportional to the wavelength, and that's what's important — the
wavelength. The longer the wavelength, the longer your antenna needs to be to
pick it up."

He was on a roll: "Short wavelengths get blocked fairly easily. That's a
generalization, but it's a good rule of thumb. That's one of the reasons why
5GHz WiFi doesn't travel through walls as well as 2.4GHz. If you dig deep, you
find it's more complicated, and it depends on the property of the material
that's blocking, but like I said, it's a good rule of thumb."

"Long radio waves are almost unblockable". The difficulty with them is that they
have low bandwidth. Let's take the nuclear subs, for example. They drag a wire
behind them that's a couple of miles long. That's so they can pick up an 8kHz
signal — the nuclear launch codes. It'll take a couple of minutes to transmit
the entire code, but who cares? As long as it gets through then the missiles get
launched. And you can't block the signal."

"As a side note: I hope that those antennae — they can also be called
'antennas', but I always like to use the Latin plural. 'Antenna' is a first
declension noun. Did I mention I took four years of Latin at St. Ignatius Prep?
Yes, a Jew in a Jesuit school — I wasn't the first, and I won't be the last.
'Hybrid vigor' I call it, though from an intellectual standpoint than a genetic
one."

She found herself completely drawn in by him, his enthusiasm, his leap from
topic to topic, his wealth of knowledge.

"So where was I? Oh yes, the long antennae on nuclear subs — I hope they never
are used. Good engineering, bad use-case. But no sense in getting worked up over
things outside my control."

"We were talking about antennae and wavelengths. Now don't get me wrong, the
human brain can detect wavelengths of many sorts. Let's take hearing for
example: we can hear wavelengths from about 20Hz to about 21kHz if you're a kid.
At my age, my hearing only goes up to 12kHz, so I can't hear high-pitched whines
above a certain frequency. Note that we can 'sense' frequencies lower than 20Hz —
we can feel the rumble — but we don't 'hear' them. But sound waves, even though
they have a frequency and a wavelength, aren't electromagnetic — instead, they
fall under the more classic definition: a wave caused by displacement of mass,
which happens to be air in the case of soundwaves."

"But our senses aren't limited to sound — we can can also see, and light is a
good example of electromagnetic radiation. Light has a really short wavelength —
in the hundreds of nanometers. And the frequency? 430–750 terahertz. That's
right, _terahertz_. So the frequency of visible light will cycle about ten
thousand times more frequently than, say,  a 5GHz WiFi signal. So we don't need
a long antenna at all. They can be small enough to fit inside a specialized
human cell."

"Where was I? Oh yes, the antennae. We want people to be able to perceive
radiation, but not something they can already see — if they have eyes, there's
no purpose installing an antenna what will see the visible spectrum inside the
skull — it doesn't buy them anything. Plus light has a hard time penetrating the
skull — they wouldn't see much at all."

"We can't go to a low frequency, because we can't stick a 2-inch rod inside
someone's skull. In fact, we don't want to do any drilling or surgery at all if
we can help it. So that forces our hand: small antennae, high frequencies."

"Max, what was that machine you were working on before I came in?"

"Machine? Oh yes, that wasn't a machine _per se_: it's the console to a machine.
A modified MRI. It's what we use to create the antennae."

"Create the antennae?"

"We arrange the cells. We delicately push and pull them until they line up
correctly. The ganglions and axions, mostly the ganglions. Salt water and
everything — make a good antenna when they're lined up exactly right."

"You inject salt water?"

"Heavens, no. I meant to say that we are salt water. When you cry, the tears are
salty. Curiously they're always the same concentration of salt. Salty enough to
conduct electricity decently, which is a requirement for antennae. Your body's
cells, they are all pretty salty, about as salty as the ocean."

"So when you create these antennae, where do you place them?"

He turned to her: "Now _that_ is a very good question."

He says, "In the beginning we had no idea — we thought we'd create them in the
frontal lobes — the cerebral cortex — and that was weird. You could tell the
behavior changed. Then we began to branch out: the thalamus, the hippocampus,
the amygdalae"

"You did this on humans?"

"Goodness no! We're scientists, not lunatics. We were testing on mice. Mice are
not always the best subjects when it comes to these types of experiments though
because they can never describe what they're thinking or sensing. We extrapolate
from their behavior."

"And what did you find?"

"Honestly we found very little. The behavior changed, but only slightly.
Sometimes they could do the maze faster, sometimes they'd refuse to do it. But
these were subtle changes, and not always consistent."

"Then what happened?"

"We were at a dead-end. We had been stuck for six months. It was time to wrap
things up. We spoke to our sponsor and told them we weren't making progress, and
that it was time to wrap-up the project."

"Early termination?"

He looked at her, "I guess from a company standpoint you want to keep the money
coming in, but we weren't getting anywhere."

"You did the right thing," she reassured him. "We're in this business for the
long haul; we want to be straight shooters. Besides, there are always other
projects to bid on."

"You're the CEO — don't you already know all this?"

"The Federal Division is different than the company's other business units,"
Julia said. "Most of the projects are classified, so although we see the
financials, they're rolled-up, not broken out by project. Sometimes we might see
a codename for a project, usually not."

"This project's name was 'Winterfell'"

"We never saw that name in the financials."

"I wouldn't think so," said Dr. Bernstein. "I've worked on several DHS projects,
and this is one of the most secretive."

"So what happened when you suggested an early project termination?"

"They surprised us. They asked if they procured us a live human subject if we
could continue the research."

"We pointed out that although a live human subject would help move the project
forward, there were ethical considerations that precluded us from using human
subjects."

"Then what happened?"

"They introduced us to the test subject. He was a very interesting young man.
Although he wasn't a scientist, he understood the biological and electromagnetic
underpinnings of our work. He also understood the risks, and yet he was
completely willing to go ahead anyway."

Dr. Bernstein's voice sunk to a low whisper, "Julia, I must tell you that
there's something strange about this project — I get the feeling they — the
sponsor — isn't telling us everything. This research I'm doing — it has no
value. No military value, that is, and no medicinal value. I've done a lot of
these projects, and usually I get a sense of what they're looking for, what
they're trying to do. Not this one. This project, from my standpoint, is a
spaghetti-on-the-wall project — throw a lot of spaghetti on the wall, and see
what sticks. It's basic research. But they're much too interested in this.
There's something more in play here, and for the life of me I can't figure out
what it is. But I can tell you this: they want it very badly, and they're not
telling us what they're looking for."

Julia asked, "Do you think the subject knows what they're looking for?"

"He knows more than me, of that I am sure. I don't know how much they told him,
but they've told him enough so that he's willing to take big risks. Look, even
though it's not invasive surgery, pushing parts of your brain around is
dangerous stuff — a lot can go wrong, terribly wrong, very quickly. And he knows
all this, and he's willing to do it. I just don't get it."

She became serious, "Is this the young man that died?"

"It's the man who disappeared. We don't know if he died. One minute he was in
the room, the next minute he was gone."

"Is it possible he left out the back door or something similar?"

"You saw how locked-down they have this place: it would be next-to-impossible to
sneak out undetected."

"Do you think that 'pretending' he disappeared and spirited him away?"

"If that's the case, I don't see what 'pretending' buys them — it's brought the
project to a screeching halt and opened the possibility of shutting us down,
which was the last thing they wanted. Plus the instruments had very strange
readings leading up to the moment he disappeared."

"The instruments?"

"Mostly health monitor stuff: pulse rate, blood pressure, breathing, EKG."

"Which readings were off?"

"The pulse rate & blood pressure were normal, and so was his EKG, but his
brainwaves were like nothing I've seen before."

"Were you in the room when this was happening?"

"No, I was in the next room."

"And then?"

"And then all the readings went flat. I thought maybe a cable fell loose or
something, so I was fiddling with the workstation for about a minute. But I
couldn't find anything wrong, so I walked to the other room to find that he was
gone."

"Gone?"

"The plank was empty. The sensors were still there, but they were resting on the
plank, not attached to anything. The way the sensors were laid out — it made it
seemed like he vanished rather than disconnecting each sensor and then leaving."

"May I see the room?"

"Yes, of course. This was the room I was in when it happened."

He walked to the far end of the room to another door with a sign on it that
said, "Danger. Strong Magnetic Field. No Pacemakers, Metallic Implants, or
Neurostimulators."

He turned to her and said, "You don't have a pacemaker, do you?"

"No."

"And nothing ferro-magnetic? Nothing that can become a projectile?"

"Not on my clothing, but maybe I should leave my handbag here."

She placed her handbag on one of the lab chairs and followed him through the
door through a short six-foot corridor at the end of which was another door. He
opened it.

"Here we are."

It was a spare room with an MRI: a large torus with a plank leading into it.
Julia was reminded of Dunkin' Donuts, and the thought made her smile.

"He was on the plank, of course. Or, more precisely, he _wasn't_ on the plank
when I came back in."

"If I understand correctly, it is here that the antennae are created."

"Yes."

"Is one antenna created during each session, or more?"

"It depends. There's a limitation of the number of adjustments in one setting.
Sometimes you only need to adjust one or two things to make an antenna,
sometimes you need a dozen. During a given session we limit the number of
adjustments to one hundred for several reasons, the most important of which is a
buffer limitation, but there's also a re-calibration requirement."

"So if I'm doing the math right, you can make about ten antenna per session."

"That's more-or-less accurate. In this case it we had just finished creating the
third antenna when he disappeared."

"He had three functioning antennas, I mean, antennae?"

"Oh my, no — he had 147 antennae."

"What?"

"This was his fifteenth session."

"In how many days?"

"In eight days. We had been doing two sessions per day, followed by a
multi-modal stress test to make sure that there were no ill effects."

"Isn't that rather aggressive?"

"It was _extremely_ aggressive. I balked. I said it wasn't safe, we don't know
the consequences of this type of cerebral manipulation, that we should go slowly
and be careful — I said one antenna per week, max. And you know what happened?
They went non-linear."

Julia smiled at this reference: whereas most people would say, "they went
ballistic", electrical engineers have a tendency to say, "they went non-linear",
a reference to an electrical system whose response to an input is out of
proportion.

"But I wouldn't budge. That colonel, Taggart, didn't like me saying no. You
could tell that he's used to people saying yes. I even spoke with our counsel,
who  backed me 100%, said that I didn't have to do it if I felt it would pose
undue risk."

"Funny, the counsel never told me about that."

"She couldn't tell you — she had to get clearance, too. Even when she got
clearance they wouldn't tell her anything about the project. I could only talk
in generalities. «They want me to perform an untested procedure on another human
being that will most likely leave him with permanent brain damage, possibly kill
him.» She said that I was in my rights to refuse; in fact, anything other than
refusing would constitute criminal negligence, and expose me and the company to
criminal prosecution."

"So you refused?"

"I stuck to my guns: I refused. And then they went to court and compelled me to
perform the procedure."

"I thought Janice told you that you shouldn't do the procedure."

"That's what she said on Monday, but on Tuesday she called me and said I had to
go ahead with it. She said she had been served a court order."

"From which court?"

"FISC. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court."

"But this project has _nothing_ to do with surveillance. It's a biomed project."

"I know; I couldn't figure out how FISC became involved — did they decide they
needed to branch out to new markets? That the NSA eavesdropping wasn't enough?"

Dr. Max Bernstein laughed at his joke, and Julia thought that the laugh, which
was little more than an asthmatic snort, was somehow quite endearing. She found
herself laughing, too.

"Anyway, we can appeal the order, but you need a special lawyer to argue before
that particular court. The attorneys need some type of approval or certification —
I didn't understand the details, and the reasoning seemed fairly contorted and
unnatural. Made me glad I went into Science instead of Law."

"I went back and forth with Janice. I even considered resigning from the
company. I knew if I went ahead with the cerebral manipulation it wouldn't turn
out well. And it didn't turn out well — though it didn't turn out well in a
completely unexpected way."

"I insisted on thorough cerebral analysis after each session. We found some
research, but we had to do most of it on our own — some of the easiest were the
senses: visual, auditory, smell, taste, touch. And we dove down into each one.
For example, to determine that he lost no sense of touch, we needed to do an
almost complete scan of his body, first with a hot object, then with a cold
object, then with a moist object, then with a feathery object."

"Then there was kinesthesia: balance, use of limbs, tossing a ball against the
wall and catching it. Writing your name with your left hand, picking up a sock
with your toes.

"Emotions were very tricky, we never got a good handle on those. We'd give him a
battery of tests which was basically asking one question, «How do you feel right
now?» I was never happy with those tests."

"Then there were the run-of-the-mill tests — was he still breathing regularly?
Was his heart beating? Could he still fall asleep? Did his digestion work
properly?"

"Did you find any aberrations as the study progressed?"

"Not really. Sure, some measurements varied over the course of the 8 days, but
those variations were either not statistically significant or within normal
range."

"So there was no hint that anything could go wrong leading up to his
disappearance?"

"Not really. I could show you the spreadsheets if you want — it's a lot of raw
data, and I haven't put it together with nice charts or anything, but you're
welcome to look them over."

"Yes, I'd be interested if that's okay."

"Sure."

He led her out of the MRI room and back to the original lab. He sat her down in
front of his computer. He fiddled around and brought up several spreadsheets.

"Here you go — you can sit at my desk and go through them. I'm going to go back
to adjust the equipment."

"Why bother adjusting? The subject is gone, right? Isn't the project on hold?"

"I'm testing the mice. I'm not working on humans, only mice. In my humble
opinion we should have spent years working with mice, then maybe with primates,
as much as that breaks my heart, and only at the very end work with humans.
There's a reason that  pharma companies take so long to bring new drugs to
market — there's a lot of safeguards in place to prevent people getting
unnecessarily hurt. Some would argue that there are too many safeguards, too
much red tape, but I always err on the side of safety. Anyway, that's a topic
for another day."

He fiddled with the knobs and looked at the console while she explored the
spreadsheet. She was good with numbers, and she had a good enough background in
medicine/biology to understand when something wasn't right. The numbers looked
mostly normal. There were some spikes, but no outliers.

"Max?"

"Yes?"

"When he disappeared, you were putting an antenna in his brain, right?"

"Yes. Definitely. In fact we had finished."

"Where were you placing the antenna?"

"Funny you should ask — we were working on a part of his brain that we hadn't
yet worked on — it was the limbic system."

---

"Max, I'm not an anatomist, but if I remember correctly, some consider the term
«limbic system» to be somewhat outdated — it's not really a system but a
collection of disparate structures."

"You're right: the function of, say, the hippocampus, which consolidates
memories, is very different than the amygdala, which is related to a number of
emotional processes."

"So in which structure of the limbic system was the antenna being added?"

"The amygdala."

Julia wondered if that was significant.

"I want to understand everything about the process," she said. "I want to
understand from start to finish. For example, when the subject arrived — by the
way, what was his name?"

"He said his name was «Tyrion», but I suspect that wasn't his real name."

"I suspect you're right. When he arrived, what was the first machine you hooked
him up to?"

"The first thing we needed was a topographical map of his brain — we needed to
know every detail of the layout so that we knew where to place the antennae. So
we used the MRI to map his brain over the course of an hour. The granularity of
the MRI is quite fine, so the the dataset was huge."

"There's no danger using the MRI, is there?"

"No danger, unless you have a pacemaker or something like that."

"Then I want you to make a topographical map of my brain."

"Really?"

"Yes, I want to understand the process, not only from a high-level, abstract
viewpoint, but also from a detailed down-in-the-trenches viewpoint. I want to
experience as closely as possible what Tyrion went through."

Although Julia was not an expert in the field to the same degree as Max, she had
a background in STEM, with an emphasis on biology, medicine, and computers, so
she was quite familiar with the terrain.

There was a point when her career was on a trajectory to become a scientist at a
time when there were few women scientists, but like many of her sister
scientists, she was sidetracked into a sales position.

She had few illusions about why she was chosen for sales: she was a woman, and
although she was not drop-dead gorgeous, she was not unattractive either, and
all her customers were men, and they liked being in her company, and they
listened to the pitches, the presentations.

But here was the kicker: she was a great sales rep. She knew her customers, she
knew their business, and she knew her products cold. Her looks may have gotten
her in the door, but her performance was what made her stellar.

Performance. She had originally thought that sales was glamorous, but she
quickly realized it wasn't. Sales was an endless stream of tedious chores. She
remembered one time a customer was furious — he had spent $1M on a system but
was missing the cables needed to make it work. The factory swore they had
shipped the cables. She had managed to get the tracking number, trace it via the
shipper, track it to the customer's shipping and receiving, retrieved the name
of the person who signed the package, and discovered that the box of cables had
been sitting under that person's desk for the last week. The customer was both
embarrassed and pleased. Admittedly, it was grunt work, but that's what made
customers stick with you – they trusted you to make it work, make it good.

She knew the product line, too. That helped. One time there was a demo unit in
the  customer's lab, and engineer was having a hard time getting his code to
make the API calls properly — he couldn't read data from the demo unit. She sat
next to him and reviewed his code and modified the flags passed to the
`configure` script. After 15 minutes of working alongside the engineer they
managed to pull data from the instrument.

She remembered the engineer. After she had helped fix his program he looked at
her differently, as if she were a dog who suddenly began speaking in impeccable
English. Up to that moment he had been fairly hostile at the several meetings
they had attended together, and it was clear he was suspicious of sales reps. He
would make snide comments, "Yeah, sure" or "I'd like to see that happen" when
she discussed the features of her products. But after those 15 minutes, the
world changed. His manager later spoke to her, "I don't know what you did, but
he's not blocking the purchase. He says your products are at least as good as
our current vendors. He's pretty happy."

The engineer may have even had a crush on her, but he never asked her out or
acted unprofessionally.

And that was another tricky topic: customer crushes. That was one case where it
would have been easier to have been a man. She was often asked out by her
clients, usually older, often divorced. She toyed with the idea of wearing a
decoy wedding ring, but decided not to — it was fundamentally dishonest, and she
was bad at lying — it was too much work. It was easier to say, "I'm not
available." She felt bad when she saw the disappointment in their eyes, although
curiously it was sometimes tinged with relief.

She got along well with all her customers. She liked them, and they liked her.
She stayed in touch with the ones who went to her competitors, when they and
sometimes it paid off they came back, but that wasn't the reason she stayed in
touch. She stayed in touch because she genuinely liked them.

She had spent six years as a sales rep, and in the last two years she declined
two offers to become a sales manager. "I can't afford the pay cut," she
half-joked.

Finally she acquiesced, and that was the beginning of her rapid ascent through
the company.

That was probably her best quality: she was kind. And she liked people. And she
had the capacity to work really, really hard.

Harder, apparently, than Dr. Max, who after a couple of hours walking her
through the charts, the machines, the procedures, said, "Julia, it's 8pm. I'm
tired. I usually head home at 5pm, maybe 6pm or even 7pm if the work is
exciting, but this is as long as I've stayed at work in years, and I need my
rest."

Julia looked up from the console, "What? Oh, Max, I'm sorry — I didn't mean to
keep you. It's been such a long time since I've worked with equipment, and I've
forgotten how exciting it can be. Please, go home. Rest. Is it okay if I stay
here and continue to review?"

"Of course. I was told you have full access to the project, so look at whatever
you need to. There's no internet of course, so you can't check email or
anything, but whatever's on the local fileserver is available."

"I'll be careful. I may still be here in the morning when you get in."

Max was about to laugh when he realized she was serious.

She didn't hear him close the door — she was too engrossed in the research. It
was fascinating.

Earlier in the evening Dr. Max had taken a full MRI of her brain, and showed her
where the limbic system was, where the hippocampus was, the amygdala, the
hypothalamus, the olfactory bulbs. The resolution was wonderful. And the antenna
placement.

He had also showed her how to program the instrument that "draws" the antenna in
the brain. Funny, things hadn't changed much since her days in working with the
equipment — you just needed to know C and some API routines and plug in
coordinates and you were off to the races.

She reviewed his lab notes — wonderful old-school notebooks with grid patterns.
He had beautiful handwriting, Dr. Max. And his drawings were easy-to-understand.
There was a clariy of thought that came through the pages when you read his
notes — you sensed the broad sweep of his project and where he was taking it.

She could also tell that he was more affected by Tyrion's disappearance than he
let on. The last entry in the notebook was a simple "Tyrion" along with drawings
of tears along the margin of the notebook. Poor Tyrion, poor Max.

She decided she would go through a dry run of everything leading up to Tyrion's
disappearance. She'd use her brain scan instead of his, but go through it.
First,  she calculated the antenna placement in her amygdala. Then she wrote the
code that pushed-and-pulled the ganglions and axions into place, then she
downloaded the code into the MRI, and then walked into the MRI room, lay on the
platform, and hooked up the sensors to herself. She turned everything on, and
then lay their for 15 minutes, then got up and pulled the sensors off.

She still had no idea what happened. The dry-run hadn't haccomplished anything,
nothing at all.

The thought came to her, "Why a dry run? Why not the real thing?"

She thought about that for a second — why not the real thing? She could do it.
It was just a small adjustment. Minute. Microscopic. Not invasive, just a pull
here, a push there. It couldn't be safer. All she had to do was flip up the
manual off switch next to the MRI.

She thought about it. It felt exhilirating, like she was on the brink of a
precipice looking down. She remembered when she was eight, and her friend had
dared her to run naked through the theater class with nothing on except a mask.
Her friend had double-dared her, knowing she wouldn't do. But she did do it. She
took off her clothes, put on the bird-mask, and ran through the theater class
naked. Then Julia and her friend hid in the closet while Julia dressed. And
then, when the excitement died down and everyone had returned to the theater
class, they snuck out the back door. Julia's friend was surprised she had done
it, but no one was more surprised than Julia herself.

Julia remembered the feeling she had the moment before she had taken her clothes
off — she felt she was on the brink of a precipice, looking down.

She flipped up the switch, the MRI was now on. She went through the procedure a
second time, hooking up the electrodes, lying on the platform, listening to the
far-off distant clanging that the MRI made while it was moving around.

She lay there. And lay there. And nothing. Nothing happened, nothing was
different.

She took the electrodes off. That was it? All that excitement for nothing?

She blushed. That was childish and irresponsible to try an experimental
procedure on herself with no one around. You can do crazy things when you're an
eight-year-old girl, but it's unbecoming of a CEO in her late forties.

She'd tell Dr. Max when he got in next morning. She'd tell him, and he'd be
incredulous and give her a look that said, "What were you thinking?", and she'd
have nothing to say. It was a poorly thought out idea, and completely out of
character. Oh well.

She decided she'd give herself the battery of tests to make sure her brain was
functioning. Some of the tests required a second person, so she skipped those
ones. Her eyes seemed fine, hearing was good, taste, smell, touch — all good.
She could read a paragraph of text, she could watch a YouTube video of a baby
sloth trying to eat peanut butter and feel an emotional response ("how cute!").
She did a sudoku puzzle. Everything was fine.

She wondered if there was anything to this. Was this some high-priced snake oil
we were selling the government? What benefit could there possibly be to having
tiny antennas made out of squishy brain matter? And did they hold their shapes?
Of course not, the brain isn't hard like bone, it's squishy. A quick turn of the
head to see something outside the window would twist the shape of the antenna.
It was silly. She went through it, and nothing had happened.

She became aware she was beginning to get sleepy. She checked the clock on the
computer console: 4:26 am. She could get a couple of hours of sleep before Max
came in. She looked around — the only place to stretch out was the MRI machine.
Why not? In her early years she had spent many a night sleeping in the lap, and
she was lucky in that she rarely if ever had trouble falling asleep. She lay
down on the MRI and within a minute had drifted off to sleep.

She never heard the far-off distant clanging of the MRI.

---

She dreamt she was in an impossibly large house. It was beautiful, with soaring
vistas. She could hear someone in the distance calling her name.

"Julia! Julia, wake up!"

Dr. Max was shaking her. "Wake up Julia! Oh my God, Oh Jesus!"

She said, "Max!? Why are you saying «Jesus»? You're Jewish."

"Thank God, you can at least talk. And, to answer your question, I am Jewish,
and I believe that Jesus was a historical person, and furthermore I was trained
by Jesuits, and that's what they said when things were going horribly wrong."

She rubbed her eyes. May as well get it over with, fast.

"Max, in what only described as a moment of poor decision-making, I used the
equipment to draw an antenna in my amygdala. It was wrong, and I won't do it
again."

"Oh Julia, Julia, I wish it was only one antenna."

"What do you mean?"

"The machine has been drawing antennae in your head since about 4:30 am. For the
last four hours it has been drawing one antenna every 3 minutes — you have 80
antennae in your head right now."

"What!?"

"The program you wrote only controls the placement of the _first_ antenna. After
that, the program loops using an algorithm to place the next antenna
automatically. It keeps placing antennae as long as it detects a subject in the
MRI."

"Oh my God."

"We need to get you through the tests right away. And we need to notify Taggart
so he can send a medical doctor as soon as possible."

He said, "Let's get you up first." He held out his hand. She took it, and his
hand felt nice. He led her into the other room.

"That damn MRI; I knew have should have had at least two overrides," Max said.

"It wouldn't have made a difference; I would have overridden both of them."

He nodded. He sat her down in a chair and began hooking sensors up to her.
"We're going to get the basic sensors going, the heartbeat/EKG, breathing,
etc..., to detect a sudden catastrophic event as soon as it happens — we don't
want to lose you. Things are bad enough as is. Oh Jesus, how could I have let
this happen?"

"Max: let's get a couple of things straight. First, there was nothing you could
have done. I made the decision to draw antennae in my head, not you. Also, I run
this  company — it's my prerogative to make decisions. There are good decisions,
and there are not-so-good decisions, but they're mine to make. So don't blame
yourself. You didn't do anything wrong. You did exactly as you should have.
Mis-placed guilt is a purposeless emotion, and you are wrong to indulge in it."

He paused for a second, pursed his lips, and said, "You're right."

She went on, "Look at where we are: here, in this lab. I'm breathing, you're
breathing. We're both healthy as of this moment. I am confident everything is
going to be okay."

Max took a deep breath and said, "Okay."

He seemed more relaxed, more even-keeled. That was good. People tended to make
fewer mistakes when they were relaxed. Emotions were wonderful servants but
terrible masters. Much of her job as CEO was to dampen the influence of emotions
such as anger, despair, fear. Sometimes the best thing a leader could bring to
the table was a sense of perspective, to show that these problems which can seem
so gargantuan in the moment are merely minor bumps in the road. Confidence
helped, too. When people saw that you were confident, they calmed down.

She was not worried. Maybe she should have been, but she wasn't. She was on the
fence with regard to the efficacy of the science — the idea that nudging a
ganglion in the brain a few microns over could make an amazing difference seemed
silly. She had nudged a couple of neurons in her brain, a couple of ganglions,
with the MRI. Big deal. She nudged millions, maybe billions more when she
sneezed. Tyrion's disappearance most likely had little or nothing to do with the
science, with the project. That was the real mystery: what had happened to
Tyrion?

Max picked up the phone on his desk to call Taggart. So retro — a desk phone!
And a desk phone that was not connected to the public switched telephone
network. She suspected that there were maybe 200 numbers at most that Dr. Max
could dial, and he probably only ever dialed two of them: Taggart and the front
desk.

"Colonel Taggart? This is Dr. Bernstein. We've had an accident. What? No,
everyone is okay." Dr. Max turned to look at Julia. "Everyone's okay for now."

"The short version is this: there has been an accident, and approximately 80
antennae have been drawn into Ms. Julia Chou's brain."

There was a long awkward pause.

"She fell asleep on the MRI while it was on and in inscription-mode."

Another long pause.

"Well, we look forward to seeing you soon then."

Max hung up the phone and turned to Julia, "he's on his way."

Julia, sitting up on the chair, hooked up to many medical instruments, suddenly
saw double. "I'm seeing double. Not quite double, more like a juxtaposition of
two almost-identical views."

Max ran over and began checking the machines. "Your pulse rate hasn't budged;
kudos to keeping calm. In fact, everything looks normal, although I'm beginning
to see an interesting harmonic on one of your brain waves."

"I'm feeling a mild sense of dizziness. Also a very strong sense of well-being.
I think, if anything, my pulse rate and blood pressure may drop slightly."

"You're right about the pulse rate and the blood pressure — they're dropping,
but not dangerously so. Also the interesting harmonic seems to have an ebb and
flow to it."

Julia sat on the chair, watching the juxtaposed images. It was almost as if she
was seeing two worlds at once, two almost-identical worlds. She also felt a
sense of extreme calm. And rather than feeling tired or sleepy, she felt as if
she was sitting on a limitless supply of energy, energy that could be tapped if
needed.

"Max?"

"Julia?"

"Was Tyrion black, about five-foot-eleven, one hundred eighty pounds,
short-cropped hair, and clean-shaven?"

"Yes"

"I'm looking at him right now."

Max whipped around, "I don't see him. He's not in this room."

Julia said, "He is in my field of view. I believe he sees me, for he's looking
at me, but he's squinting, so maybe not. I don't think he hears me, but I will
call out anyway. Tyrion? Tyrion? He doesn't appear to hear me."

"I'm worried about you, Julia. The harmonic is getting stronger. It's anomalous.
I also believe that you're hallucinating. I feel we should sedate you until we
have a better understanding of what is happening."

"I'd rather you didn't sedate me."

Max was rummaging through his drawers until he found what he was looking for. A
nylon zippered case. He unzipped it. There were several bottles and a syringe.

"You appear to be shaking — perhaps it's you, and not me, that could use
sedation."

She smiled. He frowned.

"That's not funny, Julia. I'm shaking because I don't want to lose the second
person on this project. I don't know what's happening — it's all very strange —
but I think we should put you to sleep."

He stuck the syringe in one of the bottles, a clear bottle with clear fluid. She
couldn't read the label, but she suspected phenobarbital — it was a
tried-and-true sedative.

He pointed the syringe directly upwards, flicked it three times, then squeezed
out a single drop to make sure there were no air bubbles.

"I really wish you wouldn't do this," she said, utterly calm.

"If it helps, I'm not happy about doing this either."

She remained still while he tried to find a vein. "Got it! Damn, too far, let me
go back."

He moved the syringe around trying to find the vein. He tried to be still, but
he was still trembling. She grimaced. Finally she said, "Max, you're butchering
my arm. Let me do it, okay?"

"Okay. Here it is." he passed her the syringe.

She took the syringe. She held it in her right hand, slid the needle into the
vein in the crook of her left elbow, and slowly pushed the plunger. When the
plunger was all the way in she asked, "Are you ready with the bandage?"

"Ready".

"I'm pulling the syringe out now." She knew she had approximately 30 seconds
once she started pushing the plunger before she passed out. The last thing she
remembered saying was "Hold me because I'm about to pass out". Over Max's
shoulder she could see Tyrion squinting at her.

---

She awoke on a gurney. She was still in Max's lab, hooked up to the medical
monitoring equipment.

"How long have I been out?"

"A little more than an hour."

She grunted. "For what it's worth, I don't see any juxtaposed images, and I
don't see anyone other than you. FYI, I have a mild headache and feel groggy,
though I suspect those are side effects of the sedative."

"Let me call Taggart. He wanted to speak with you as soon as you regained
consciousness."

Julia nodded. Max went to the desk, picked up the old-school telephone, and
dialed a number.

"She's awake," he said, and then hung up the phone.

In a few minutes the door to the lab opened and Colonel Taggart strode in. He
looked annoyed.

"Good morning Colonel," she said. Was it still morning? She wasn't sure. There
weren't any windows, and she couldn't see any clocks.

Taggart neither confirmed nor denied whether it was morning. He launched into a
rebuke, "You committed a breach of trust. You used the equipment in an
unauthorized manner, you violated our agreement."

It wasn't the time to get into a pissing contest with the Colonel. There were a
number of ways she could handle this: she decided the best was an
acknowledgement and a reminder.

"Colonel Taggart: it was a poor decision to use the equipment on myself without
supervision, and for that I take responsibility. I would like to remind you that
the equipment is the corporation's — I see our asset tags on them — and, that as
an officer of the corporation, I am within my rights to use said equipment."

He pursed his lips. "You jeopardized the project."

"I think our time is better spent deciding how to move forward rather than
assigning blame." Julia said curtly.

"There are things you don't understand."

"Then explain those things to me."

Taggart looked like he was about to say something and then thought the better of
it.

"I'll need to run this by my superiors," he said, and strode out of the lab.

"Max, is there anything about the project that you didn't tell me? Is there
something I should know?"

"I've told you everything of significance. Like I said earlier, I get the
feeling they're not telling me everything they know about the project — they
have a strong sense of urgency, but it's at complete odds with the type of work
we're doing."

"You said there was a brain wave anomaly you were seeing — is it still there?"

Max checked the scope. The brain waves were normal. "I set a trigger to alert us
if the anomaly re-appears, but so far it hasn't. It disappeared the moment you
passed out. But all your brain waves changed dramatically once you lost
consciousness — that was to be expected. Anyway, it hasn't reappeared."

"I wonder if the anomaly was related to me seeing «juxtaposed» images."

"It's possible, but we ran no tests to prove or disprove that hypothesis. And
I'm loath to do those tests if we see anomalous brain waves again. Julia,
there's something not right happening."

"That's another thing I wanted to ask you — how could I have described Tyrion so
closely never having seen him before? Did I really see him, or was it some
projection of my subconscious?"

"That was very interesting. I don't think that there's a physical description of
Tyrion on paper or on the workstation, so I was surprised that you could
describe him so closely. That being said, let's break it down: you said he was
about five-foot-eleven, 180 pounds. Clean-shaven, short-cropped hair. What
you're describing is the average military person.  Although it wasn't explicit,
it was implied that Tyrion had some sort of military background. So the
apparition was merely an amalgamation of your typical soldier. Your subconscious
conjured up a soldier for you . The big surprise is that the apparition was
black, and that Tyrion was also black. Blacks make up approximately 13% of the
military, so that was either a lucky guess on the part of your subconscious, or
maybe I accidentally mentioned he was black.

"You don't believe I «saw» anything."

"I believe your mind saw something, but no, I don't believe anything was there,
otherwise I would have seen it too."

"Good point."

"Do you believe you saw something?"

"I can tell you he looked as real as day to me, but then again I was seeing two
images superimposed on each other. My visual field was compromised."

"Have you ever been under the influence of hallucinogens?"

"In college, yes. Not since."

"Did Tyrion remind you of those experiences?"

"A lot of the hallucinations I saw were simple things: walls breathing, trails,
that sort of stuff. Tyrion was not like that at all."

"Hmmm. I wonder if it was a side effect of the procedure."

"That would be the logical guess — my brain acting wonky after it has been
adjusted."

Taggart strode back in the room. "General Gates would like a word."

"Is he here?" asked Dr. Max.

"No, he's never here — I've never met him in person. He'll call within the next
few minutes though".

The phone rang. Taggart walked over, picked up the handset, and jammed a button
to put the caller on speakerphone. "Taggart here".

"Hello Colonel Taggart, this is General Gates."

"Yes sir!" said Taggart.

"At ease." Even over the phone Gates had a mellifluous voice, like a kindly
grandfather.

"Julia — may I call you Julia? I believe that you had something to tell me."

"General Gates, I used the MRI to draw antennas — I mean antennae — in my
brain."

"How many, and what part of the brain?"

Julia mumbled.

"I didn't catch that." said Gates.

"Eighty, EIGHTY!" Julia said.

Gates chuckled. "You didn't want to stop at one, did you? You had to do all 80?"

"There was a misunderstanding regarding the functioning of the program."

"What part of the brain?"

"Limbic system. Throughout all parts of the limbic system."

Gates sighed. "This isn't quite what we planned, but in some ways this is a
godsend. We have one subject — had one subject — and now we have a subject
again."

"General Gates, with all due respect, I am a civilian; I am _not_ a test
subject."

"Ms. Chou, there are aspects of this research that preclude you from returning
to civilian life in the near future. Dr. Bernstein: we hadn't fully informed you
of many aspects of the research. We didn't want to unnecessarily ... trouble
you. But the events of the last 24 hours force us to tell you information which
perhaps we should have told you all along."

"The short version is this: we believe that the changes made to your brain
enable you to perceive things that may be real."

"Are you saying that when I saw Tyrion it was real? Not a hallucination?"

"You saw Captain Tyrion?" asked Gates.

Max jumped in, "She said she saw him. I couldn't see anyone. She gave a physical
description that matched Tyrion's. She also saw «juxtaposed» images. At the time
she was exhibiting anomalous brain waves, so I sedated her."

_Technically I, not you, who sedated me. You wasn't good with veins_ thought
Jennifer to herself.

"Max, were you able to record the anomalous brain waves?" asked Gates.

"Yes, they're recorded in the brain wave unit."

"I'd be very interested in seeing them later."

"I would like to know what about the research precludes me from returning to
work," said Julia.

"We don't know what's going to happen to you. Other than Captain Tyrion, we've
only had one other subject, and similar to Captain Tyrion the other subject
vanished one day. Without a trace. From a high security military facility. A
facility like this one, where people can not disappear. Until now. We still
don't know what happened, and you, Julia, are our only living link."

"Did either of these subjects manifest any symptoms before their disappearance?"

"Yes," said General Gates. "Their field of vision was distorted, they saw what
you refer to as «juxtaposed» images. At times they suffered mild headaches. At
other times they were overcome with a sense of calm and well-being. Also, they
«flickered»?"

"What do you mean by «flickered»?"

"There were people who noticed that the subjects would seem to disappear for a
fraction of a second and then reapper."

Max interrupted, "Were there any measurement instruments trained on them at the
time?"

"With the first subject, no. With Captain Tyrion, there were, but they didn't
seem to  capture anything of interest."

Max asked, "Did the subjects describe any sensation or events leading up to the
flickering? Did they themselves notice the flickering?"

"The one subject said that he had a feeling of absolute serenity. And also that
he was completely unaware of flickering."

"Why is the military so interested?"

Taggart jumped in, "If they can flicker, maybe they can disappear. If we have
soldiers that can become invisible, it makes certain types of infiltration
missions much, much easier."

"How far along did you get with the first test subject?"

"Unfortunately not as far as we would have liked. We didn't expect anything, and
when we realized things were becoming odd he had already disappeared."

Gates said, "It's something we're very interested in, but not at the cost of
losing soldiers. Tyrion was uniquely qualified. You see, he had only a month to
live. He suffered — suffers — from a very aggressive form of pancreatic cancer.
It had already metastasized to much of his body. He was a good soldier, asked if
there were any missions he could perform while he was still able to function. We
said there was one. This one. He agreed to do it. Dr. Max, that's why we had
such an aggressive schedule — he didn't have much time."

Dr. Max looked down on the ground. "I am so sorry. I had no idea. I am so
sorry."

The room fell awkwardly silent.

Gates spoke again, "Julia, you asked when you could return to civilian life.
This is what we plan to do: we'll keep you under observation. The two previous
subjects exhibited symptoms within ten days or less. If we don't observe any
change within two weeks, we'll assume that the antennae, for whatever reason,
don't work. We'll debrief you, and then send you back. But you will need to
report for a medical every week."

"I must contact my work and let them know that I'll be gone."

"Of course. The project is classified, so you can not mention any details for
the project. You must not mention that your brain has been adjusted via an MRI,
you must not mention the antennae. You may say that you're working on a
classified project and are not sure when you'll be able to return. If people
have questions, you may give them Colonel Taggart's contact information."

"Understood."

Gates continued, "There's a room that has a phone that has an outside line;
Taggart will bring you there. You'll have a half-hour to make the calls you
need. You may use that phone for a half-hour each day. Your calls will be
monitored."

"But that's illegal," objected Julia. "When I talk to corporate counsel, I'm
protected under attorney-client privilege."

"Evidence obtained is inadmissable in a court of law, Julia, but you're on
Federal property here, and we work under a parallel legal system, military
tribunals and all that. The ground rules are slightly different, especially when
working with State secrets, in which category this project falls."

Gates's voice softened, "Julia, we're on the same team here. We're not after
you. We want you to succeed, in more ways than you can imagine. You are, at this
moment, incredibly precious: you are the only person who has gone through this
procedure and is still around to talk about it. We want to make sure nothing bad
happens to you, and if something does happen, we want to be there to help. As
soon as possible. I appreciate how difficult it is for a woman of your position
to take a sudden and unexpected leave of absence for two weeks. We're doing our
best to accommodate your needs. The use of an outside line for 1/2 hour each
day? I had to move earth and heaven to make that happen. Please, Julia, work
with us."

Julia understood. Gates was smart to position it as being part of a team; she
believed in teamwork. She believed in trading the individual desire for success
and achievement for the team's success and achievement. She was a team player,
and she didn't mind when others got the the glory. It paid off, too: she hadn't
clawed her way to the top, she had been push-pulled to the top. Her superiors
noticed that she played well with others and made things happen, so they pulled
her up, and her teammates knew that she was good and hardworking and that they
could trust her to acknowledge their successes, so they pushed her up.

She was surprised by the cult of the CEO — that one man was responsible for the
success of the company. In the early days she believed it, that someone like
Steve Jobs or Bill Gates were singularly responsible for the success of their
companies.

But her mentor quickly disabused her of that notion: "That's bullshit," he said.
"You look at any successful CEO. Then you look behind him — he's got a bunch of
talented and hard-working people making his success possible. Do you think he'd
still be as successful if those people weren't there? Of course not. We like the
idea of heroes, of individuals who can perform herculean tasks. But it's not an
individual who wins a battle, it's an army. It's not Achilles, it's the 92nd
Infantry Division. That's not to say that the CEO is merely an ornament — it's
an important job, and he can tank the company if he's not doing it correctly —
but it's not the be-all and end-all that we like think it is."

Julia thought for a second. "Okay," she said. She wasn't sure, but it seemed
like Taggart breathed a big sigh of relief. "But I need that half-hour right
now. And, since I don't have my laptop nor my cell, I'll need a pad of paper and
a pen."

Max said, "Would one of these lab notebooks do?"

A lab notebook? Julia loved lab notebooks, with their acid-free paper and their
grid lines — perfect for taking notes and drawing charts. In fact, she used her
lab notebook her first year as a sales rep.

One of the more senior sales reps brought her a gift on her birthday. It was a
small notebook with elegant backing. She had said to Julia, "Look, I know you're
an engineer, you know you're an engineer, but part of this game we're in, this
game of sales, is to use subtle cues that you're in the same tribe as the person
to whom you're selling. And that tribe is the "executive" tribe and not the
"engineering-and-scientist" tribe. You're going to be well groomed and you're
going to have the type of notebook that your customer would have if he was a
woman. And let me tell you something: that notebook isn't going to be a lab
notebook. It'll be small, elegant, and probably in a leather case."

Contrary to what she read in the business journals, she discovered that the
women she worked with were always helpful and always looked out for her. It was
a stereotype that women were out to get each other, and that men did better
because they played on sports teams.

When she spoke to her mentor about how her fellow women were helpful rather than
competitive, he said, "«women aren't team players» is the crap that guys tell
each other so they don't feel bad about not promoting a woman who's better than
them," said her mentor. "People are people, most of them lack the discipline to
separate personal feelings from objective results. Whether I want to have a BBQ
with someone is completely irrelevant to evaluating how effective they are. That
smelly guy who consistently brings in more and more revenue every quarter?
Promote him. That great guy who everybody likes and who always has a smile but
can never close a deal? Let him go. Really. You're doing him a disservice by
keeping him around. He has a better career waiting in the wings."

Her mentor was on a roll, "You know why blacks do so well in sports? Because in
sports there's a rigorous metric for achievement: RBIs, three-pointers, assists.
If you're good, it's clear, and if you suck, that's clear, too. There's not much
wiggle room in professional sports. But in corporations? Much too much wiggle
room. If we're not careful, we let our biases make bad judgements for us. Just
because someone went to the same Ivy League school as you did does not make them
better rep than the Latino guy busting his butt. Keep in mind what T.J. Watson
Jr. once said, «just because I didn't like a guy never stopped me from promoting
him.»"

Julia said, "Yes, I'd love a lab notebook — thank you so much Max."

Max passed her a notebook along with a blue ballpoint pen.

"Colonel Taggart, would you be kind enough to direct me to the room with the
telephone?"

Taggart nodded, and they exited the lab and headed down the hallway and made a
quick left and to the right was a small, windowless (every room was windowless).
She sat down and dialed her executive assistant's phone number. Julia didn't
bother memorizing phone numbers anymore, but she knew her EA's number by heart.
For the next 29 minutes Julia had a high-bandwidth exchange with her EA,
scheduling events, pushing things out that could be done. And Julia wrote in her
notebook constantly. It reminded her of the old days, before cellphones and
laptops, when everything was written down in a notebook. There was something
viscerally satisfying about taking pen to paper, something that computers and
tablets were never quite able to match, not even come close.

Taggart knocked on the door when her time was up. "I must go now. Remember,
schedule a call with the lead counsel tomorrow morning at this time. I'm afraid
this is one call you won't be able to participate in, not because I don't want
you to, but because I think it will be breaking the law. I'll call you tomorrow
morning same time and you can patch me in to the counsel."

She hung up the phone and turned to Taggart, "It's almost impossible doing my
job without Internet access — is there any way we can loosen the restrictions
and let me use the phone and the laptop?"

Taggart shook his head, "I'm afraid that's not possible. I wish it were."

Julia nodded. She had a good sense when she could push people, and when it
wouldn't make a difference. In this case she knew it wouldn't make a difference —
they'd never let her use her phone. In two weeks, when she was back in the
office, she'd have her phone. In the meantime, she'd try her best to appreciate
being off the grid.

They walked back in silence to Max's lab. The next 8 hours consisted of
batteries of tests designed to uncover any malfunction in her brain.

"If something is wrong, you must tell me," said Julia to Max. "If there's some
disability that would prevent me from fulfilling my role as CEO, I'd need to
know as soon as possible in order to prepare a transition plan. This is not
about feelings, Max. This is business."

She locked eyes with Max. "Okay?"

He looked directly in her eyes and nodded. "Okay," he said.

Towards the end of the day she made a small mistake on one of the memorization
quizzes, inverting the order of two items, and she also had a slightly more
difficult time balancing on one foot with her eyes closed than she had had that
morning.

"There's nothing wrong that I can see," said Max. "The slight degradation is a
normal response to end-of-day fatigue."

"Degradation?"

"You know — you were flawless in the morning, but now in the evening you made a
small mistake with the memorization and balancing."

"Cut me some slack!" joked Julia. Max smiled.

Julia yawned. "These tests are tiring me out. Are we done for the day? I think
I'm ready for bed. Or at least the cot." she said, eyeing the cot in the lab.

"There's one piece of equipment I forgot to show you, but it's of utmost
importance" said Max.

"What?"

He opened a cabinet drawer and pointed inside, "the coffeemaker! Coffee is to
the left, filters to the right. Help yourself."

Max put his stuff away and headed out the door. Julia lay down on the couch.
Sleep came easily.

---

She dreamed. She was in an open field with Max. She was excited, "Let's run,
Max! Let's run." She was giddy and running across the field, and Max was trying
to keep up. She took one jump, two jumps, and the she was flying, "Look Max I'm
flying!" But he was too far back and falling further behind.

She woke up. Her sense of time had become unanchored — was it morning or still
the middle of the night? She lay back in bed and listened to her heartbeat. It
was quiet at first, and then seemed to slow and deepen, like some huge taiko
drum, like a huge taiko drum under water. Boom, Booom, Booom.

She could see the room, and yet in the back of her mind she knew she shouldn't
be able to see it — she knew her eyes were still closed. She was overwhelmed
with a sense of well-being.

Her field of view expanded. Humans could only see what was in front of them,
typical of most predators — they needed to be able to focus on their prey,
preferably in stereoscopic vision, in order to better determine distance. Prey,
on the other hand, typically had a much wider field of view: their eyes were on
the sides of their head so they could tell when something was sneaking up on
them, but they paid a price of course: no stereoscopic vision. Nothing is ever
free in the natural world.

Humans could see 180º, maybe 220º, but much of that field of view was coarse:
only ~120º was stereoscopic, only ~60º enabled color discrimination, only ~25º
if reading, and ~3º to see intricate detail.

But this vision that she was experiencing was wholly different: she could see
360º, everything in intricate detail. To describe it as "vision" would not do it
justice; perhaps "sensing" is a better word.

She could feel herself becoming bigger — she didn't know how else to describe
it. On one hand, she was lying on a cot in a room in a facility, and on the
other hand she was huge, bigger than the lab. And she wasn't lying down, but she
wasn't standing up, either.

She became so big she breached the facility; she could sense where she was. She
saw everything.

The facility was a series of non-descript buildings. It was in the desert, not
much but sand and cacti. A single asphalt road led to a checkpoint, and a chain
link fence surrounded everything. In the distance she could sense the canyons.
The sun hadn't yet risen, but it would soon, for there was a full moon near the
horizon. She knew the asphalt road lead East, but she didn't know how she knew.
It was a visceral knowledge, similar to how people know which way is down.

She sensed Max's car, parked in an underground garage. She sensed him striding
to the lab, but that was merely one of thousand things she sensed: she sensed
the scorpions stirring in the sand, she sensed the guard at the gatehouse,
bored, tapping on the formica desk, she sensed Taggart, snoring in his bed, his
room spare and impeccably neat.

Taggart. She sensed something else about him. He was somehow wounded. A very
old, a very grievous wound. She sensed layers of discipline and loyalty binding
that wound, stanching the pain, preventing it from overwhelming and destroying
him. He had buried himself in his work. But there was something beautiful about
him, hidden there, under that wound: a capacity to love in a fierce way. She
reached out to him, sensing the contours of the bindings on the wound. It was
incredibly tightly-bound, very intricate. She pushed herself through binding and
came face-to-face with an all-consuming heart-breaking sorrow. She sensed
Taggart moan in his sleep, and she sensed herself, on the cot sobbing.

And then, as quickly as it began, it ended. She found herself back on the cot,
in the lab. Her senses were normal. She was just herself. Maybe it was a dream.
She rubbed her eyes.

And Max opened the door. "G'morning."

Julia got up, "Let me make some coffee, then we can talk."

Max was looking at the instruments. "That's weird."

She started the pot brewing, and then turned to him and said, "What's weird?"

"The biometric readings."

"Any anomalies?"

"Not really. Kind of. About 20 minutes ago the anomalous brain wave appeared
again, faint at first, then becoming much more pronounced. Then about 15 minutes
ago _all_ the biometric readings suddenly stopped."

"Stopped?"

"Yes, all the readings: no blood pressure, no pulse rate, no breathing, no EKG,
no brainwaves — everything went dead."

"I wonder if I knocked the sensors off in my sleep?"

"Possibly, but it would be difficult — you'd need to knock off all the sensors
at the exact same time. Maybe there's another explanation, but I can't think
what that would be. I suspect there's videocam footage, so maybe we can ask
Taggart to allow us to review it."

"They're recording us?"

"I'm pretty sure they are — see that?" he pointed to the dark half-globe
embedded in the middle of the ceiling. "Almost definitely a videocamera."

"How did you sleep?"

"Pretty normal," she said. "Weird dreams at the end, but pretty normal
otherwise. What time is it?"

"7:00 a.m."

"I need to call corporate counsel in a half-hour," she said. "In the meantime,
let's get started."

They spent the next twenty minutes performing tests of cerebral function when
Taggart arrived.

Maybe it was Julia's imagination, but he looked slightly different this morning.
Something in his manner. A little softer.

Taggart escorted her to the phone room, where she was able to call her corporate
lawyer.

"Let me sketch it out for you, and I suspect you can fill in some of the gaps. I
am onsite in the Federal Division inspecting the project that suffered what we
believe to have been a loss of human life. For reasons I can't get into I will
be sequestered here for at least two weeks. What I need from you is to prepare a
brief to force my release at the end of two weeks in the event they decide to
prolong my sequestration."

"You don't want to be released now?"

"I'd love to be released now, but they've given reasons why they shouldn't
release me right away, and I'm willing to play ball with them. But I want to
make sure that this doesn't continue indefinitely — I should be back at the
office, not here."

"Anything else I should know?"

"The reason they gave for keeping me here is State Secrets."

"Okay."

The call was short — maybe five minutes — so Julia used her remaining 25 minutes
to call her executive assistant and work through the things to accomplish that
day.

At the end of her allotted half-hour, Taggart knocked on the door and escorted
her back to Max's lab, where Max greeted her.

"I'd like to do a different type of testing," said Max. "Your brain function is
normal, so what I'd like to do is put it under stress and see how it responds."

"What kind of stress?"

"To begin with, I'd like expose you to flashing lights. First, you're not an
epileptic, are you? Good. I'd like to expose you to flashing lights in the
frequency range of 5 to 30 Hz — which can trigger a seizure in someone with
photosensitive epilepsy."

Max set up the apparatus, and although staring at the flashing lights was
uncomfortable, it didn't inducs a seizure or brainwave anomalies.

The days was spent doing tests that were either uncomfortable (30 minute sauna)
or very uncomfortable (3-minute ice bath). Julia didn't mind — she was not
someone who was comfort-oriented. Comfort was often an afterthought.

But the tests were tiring in a manner which she didn't expect. And when Max said
that they were done for the day, Julia stretched out on the cot.

"I need to take a nap," she said. "I am so tired".

Max dimmed the lights before he closed the door behind him, and within a minute
Julia was asleep.

The dreams came fast this time. She was flying in a huge airplane. No tiny
portholes — instead, huge sheets of glass. No cramped rows of seats, rather
decorated as a spacious lounge. They were barely flying above the treeline. The
expanse was beautiful, and it made her feel big in a way she couldn't describe.

She awoke drenched in sweat. What time was it? She didn't know. But the sweat
made the electrodes slippery, and there was a slight shocking sensation coming
from them. The sweat was probably short-circuiting them, and when she looked at
the consoles she could see that was the case. She took them off. What harm could
happe by removing them for a few hours? And then drifted back to sleep.

She was dreaming, but it felt different. It was like her earlier dream, where
she could see everything. She could see everything in the room, and, as she
became bigger, she could see the facility in the desert, the road leading East,
the guardhouse.

There was an overlay, she could see flickering of lights. The cacti were diffuse
orange clouds, the scorpions were tiny yellow dots, the guard in the guardhouse
was a bright red dot, pulsing. She could sense Taggart, too: another bright red
pulsing dot. And then she saw a flickering silvery strand running parallel to
the road.

The strand fascinated her. She reached out to feel the strand. Unlike the time
she reached out to Taggart, who felt warm, the strand felt cold. She watched the
flickering, and realized there was a rhythm to it. It had a precise logic to it.
She followed the strand into the facility and saw it fan out to a hundred
smaller threads, all silver.

She reached out to the strand, and she don't know how she did it, but she
"plucked" it. She sensed ripples moving back and forth from where she plucked
it, her rhythm mixing with its.

And from the distance she found a stream of rhythms coming back. Was this an
angry response? She wasn't sure. But it was definitely a response to her
plucking it. She plucked it again.

When had played the piano though high school, and at one point considered going
to Oberlin to study music. That hadn't happened of course, but when she studied
computers she sensed a similarity between the patterns of music and the loops
and patterns of computer programs — there was a beauty and elegance. And she
sensed something similar in the manner in which this silvery strand flickered.

She realized she pluck the strand and it would play a note, and the greater the
strength which with she plucked the strand, the higher the note. She began to
experiment, and soon she was playing _Für Elise_. She knew in the back of her
mind it wasn't music that she was hearing, rather, it was something else that
her mind interpreted as music. And it was beautiful music, the most beautiful
music she had ever heard.

And then she started playing with her other hand, adding a contretemps. And she
was taking Beethoven's _Für Elise_ and layering and stretching and pulling and
twisting the music so it was achingly beautiful, and she realized that rather
than two hands she was playing with a hundred hands, maybe a thousand.

She slowly built it up to an earth-shattering crescendo, and then let it
subside. All was quiet, and the silver strand resumed its unimaginative, steady
flickering.

She sensed a presence. "Tyrion?" she spoke, although she had no mouth. It was
more of an announcement, a broadcast.

"Yes, it's me."

"Are you here?"

"I am «here», though I'm not sure where that is."

"They're worried about you."

"I'm dying Julia; I can't go back."

Julia was quiet.

"It's beautiful here, Julia. I wouldn't go back even if I could."

"Where are we?"

"It's not a place, not in the way that New York City is a place. It's more of a
state of being or a state of mind, although I'm not sure anymore if there's a
difference between the two."

"That was a beautiful, what you just did," said Tyrion. "I was going to stop
you, but I couldn't bear to not listen. It broke my heart."

"Thank you, but why would you stop me?"

Julia was non-plussed — she was having a conversation without her mouth, with a
person she couldn't see, and yet it seemed so natural.

"Gates will know something is going on. He's already frightened — I'm not sure
if that's the right word — he's been introduced to an unknown, a powerful
unknown, and he doesn't know its parameters or constraints. He's struggling
furiously to understand it. I don't know who the first subject was, but
something must have happened, something that made Gates bring to bear a set of
resources unseen in a long time."

"It didn't seem like a lot resources." said Julia. "A couple million dollars, a
dilapidated facility in the desert — I've seen much bigger."

"Don't mis-judge what you're seeing — this is only the tip of the iceberg. I was
the second subject and they had me wired up all day. And then, while I was
sleeping, I somehow slipped into here."

"Slipped?"

"I don't understand how it happened, but somehow my body slipped into this
place. They say the body is the vessel of the soul, And somehow the vessel
slipped to here along with my body. Your body is here, too. Don't take my word
for it — look for yourself."

Julia was about to ask what he meant and then realized she could look for
herself: she focused on the building where the lab was, where the cot was, and
saw nothing on the cot.

"I'm not there. Where am I?"

"You're here now."

"Can I go back?"

"I think you can; I'm not sure how it's done. I know that if I go back I'll die
from the cancer, so I'm staying here as long as I can, but I don't think it's
making a difference. I think I'm going to die anyway."

"What makes you say that?"

"I don't know how to describe it, but I feel myself getting more tenuous.
Although in some ways I'm stronger than I've ever been in this realm, I also
sense a diminishment: the colors are not as bright, everything seems fainter,
more transparent. Except for the stars — they seem just as bright."

Julia nodded. And though there was no head to nod, and she couldn't see him, and
he couldn't see her, she knew that Tyrion could sense that she was nodding.

"I'd like to ask you about something you said earlier — should I worry about
Gates? Will he harm us."

"Gates is not a «he»".

"Gates didn't sound like a woman."

"Gates is not a woman either. Gates isn't human. Gates is an AI."

"He seemed so human. He seemed warm, friendly — kinda like a wise grandfather."

"Oh yes, a lot of engineering went into that. The human-factors aspect of Gates
was really important — they knew that people had biases, pre-conceived notions,
of what an AI would be like: cold, soulless machine. And that would make Gates's
job much harder if people didn't trust him. So they, and by «they» I mean the
NSA, did two things: first, they spent an incredible amount of time creating the
user interface. Second, they didn't tell anyone that Gates was an AI. Except for
you, me, and a handful of other people, everyone thinks that Gates is a person."

"How did you find this out?"

"I was the project lead on the UI. I helped build the «wise grandfather»
persona. But make no mistake: Gates is not the persona, Gates is an AI. And as
much as an AI can fear something, Gates is very afraid of what this project
might reveal."

"Why doesn't he shut down the project?"

"Gates can't afford to shut it down — he needs to understand the threat. That's
what he's built to do: protect us from threats. And he understands threats such
as, say, a splinter group obtaining enough fissile material to build a dirty
bomb and smuggle it into New York City and set it off — Gates understands that
type of threat and how to mitigate it."

Tyrion continued, "And there are threats he can't do anything about, so he
doesn't care about them. For example, our Sun suddenly going Nova. He can't do
anything to stop it, so he doesn't waste cycles on it. But this? Something that
allows humans to do things that they shouldn't be able to do — that worries him.
A lot. What worries him the most is that he hasn't found a limit to their
abilities. That's what made me want to stop you from playing _Fur Elise_ on the
fiber optic cable connecting us to them?"

"Wait, that silvery strand is a fiber optic cable to Gates?"

"Yes."

"What's the flickering?"

"That's data — the flickering is the data flowing from us to him & back."

"And so when I played _Fur Elise_?"

"It rocked his world. It was beautiful, what you did, and also very ornate and
very dense. I doubt Gates has seen anything like it. Gates has probably broken
down most of it, and is able to see the smaller patterns within the large, and
already matched it to _Fur Elise_. I don't know which would scare him more: the
fact that you can do that, or the fact that it was an offhand sort of thing,
that you were playing around. He worries what you could do if you were serious.
Or angry. I suspect that jeep on the horizon is his envoy. And do you see his
drones?"

Julia looked up, and she sensed dim silvery points of light in the sky moving
around. And she looked at the horizon, and sensed the bright red engine of a
jeep with the dimmer red of two humans inside.

"Tyrion? Taggart is really hurt. Do you know anything about that?"

"No. I don't think I can see what you see, and that's interesting: that means
maybe we can't do all the same things. I can sense Taggart as a red human, but I
can't see inside him or tell anything about him."

"You don't see that tightly-bound ball of grief?"

"No, I don't. I can't see it. Could you please describe what you see?"

"I see a ball, tightly woven, inside him. The ball is made up of duty and
loyalty, and it protects him from feeling what's inside the ball."

"What is inside the ball?"

"It's hard to push past the weaving, but I can do it, and inside is a wall of
grief. Heartbreaking sorrow. Despair. It's all jumbled, and so overwhelming."

"Can you tell what's causing this despair?"

"No, I can't tell what's causing it, but I feel it; it's so strong."

Tyrion said, "I think you should go back to the lab now."

"I don't know how to get back."

"I don't know either — I never went back. How did you get back last time?"

"It happened. I didn't try or do anything."

Tyrion's voice sounded far-off. "Everything is becoming more transparent, Julia.
I fear I have little time left. Watch out for Gates: Gates is neither bad nor
good, that's not a paradigm in which he exists. Gates's axis is threat-severity,
and you are at the dangerous end of that scale. Don't be fooled: Gates may sound
like the voice of reason, but Gates is about threat-containment and nothing
more."

"If Gates decides that you have unmapped abilities — things that can't be
explained and that no one else can do — he will never permit you return to
civilian life. He will try to turn you into a weapon, or, if that fails, to
blunt your abilities, either with imprisonment, sedation, or worse. You must not
let on what you can do; you must tell no one. Mark my words: Gates must not
discover what you can do."

He continued, "The earth is fainter now, so transparent that I can see the stars
beyond. The stars themselves are quite bright. I think I fooled myself that I
could avoid death by coming here, to this place. I can feel myself slowly
dissolving. There's a surprising warm comfort, and rather than being fearful, I
find a sense of peace. Everything has become dim, except the stars, which are
brighter than ever, and I believe they are speaking to me..."

Tyrion trailed off, and Julia knew he was gone, this time forever. She wondered
if he had had a wife, or children, or next of kin. She was quiet, and meditated
on the void.

She meditated for what felt like aeons, but noticed that the jeep on the horizon
had hardly moved, and that the flickering silver strand had slowed to a crawl.
She looked around, and felt Taggart in his bed, tossing and turned. She reached
out and felt the tightly-bound ball with which he contained his grief. That ball
had outlived its usefulness. Rather than helping him, it merely served to stunt
his growth, to make him somehow less a man. He had traded an aspect of his
humanity for abstract ideals which made his pain bearable. That ball had long
outlived its usefulness.

She reached out to the ball: so many strands. She picked at one strand, tugging
it, pulling it away, and as soon as she did that another strand appeared it and
sealed it again. She pulled that strand, too, and as quickly as it was pulled,
another appeared. And again, and again. One hand wasn't enough.

She tried again, two hands. And still as fast as she worked the ball repaired
itself. She became lost in the flow of unwinding: it seemed that as fast as she
moved, the ball was faster. She had two hands, then three, then four, then
dozens, then hundreds: hundreds of tiny hands unweaving a miraculously resilient
ball.

Such small hands, opening and closing. Faster and faster she moved, and faster
and faster the ball repaired itself.

So fierce, the ball, the unwinding. She was lost in some cosmic conflict of
strands.

And suddenly there was a turn of the tide. She knew in the lifespan of large
stars, the minute before they go supernova, there is a brief period when they
exhaust their fuel: the iron in the core of the star begins to undergo fusion,
but rather than releasing energy, it absorbs energy, and that is the death knell
of the star: it rapidly implodes on itself and then, in an incredible burst of
energy brighter than anything else in the Universe, explodes in a Supernova.

And so it was with Taggart: the ball containing his grief suddenly gave way, and
the resulting explosion of grief and sorrow overwhelmed Julia — she felt herself
lost in a tempest of unleashed emotion.

---

She found herself on the cot, weeping uncontrollably. She lay there for what
seemed like forever. And then dabbed her eyes, went over and made coffee. The
banality of grief, she thought to herself.

She thought of what she had experienced. Was it a dream? She wasn't sure. Maybe
her subconscious had conjured a beautiful dream for her, one which reflected
what she wanted to see. The truth was drab: she was a fifty-year-old woman who
hadn't showered in at least two days who was holed up in a dilapidated army
facility. Glamorous it was not. And being hooked up to electrodes and solve math
problems or balancing on a chair or any of 100 simple tests to determine if
one's brain was on the fritz — it was soul-crushing. And she missed being around
the people she loved.

She'd call her father today. She'd call him after she talked to her executive
assistant. She'd save the last 5 minutes for talking with her dad: 25 minutes
for the EA, 5 minutes for dad. It'd be nice to hear his voice.

That was something she learned early but never understood — it was important to
do things she enjoyed which were, on the outside, purposeless. Things like
writing letters to her mother when a five-minute phone call would have been more
efficient (her mother loved letters), or buying items at thrift stores (a guilty
pleasure!) when clicking at Amazon would have taken a tenth the time. Or
spending an evening binge-watching. Or napping in the afternoon.

There are many kinds of sales reps, but she was aware of one type which seemed
odd: they had no friends. It wasn't that they had no friends, it was that their
customers were their friends. And the relationship was a mercenary one: when the
customers were no longer buying (a transfer to a different position), they would
slowly become not-friends. The reps she knew like this were often terribly
charismatic — people were drawn to them — and were fun-loving and exciting. And
they always seemed to be on their way to a special concert or a ski weekend in
Utah or scuba diving in Hawaii. They had a vigor, a vitality that seemed to have
leapt from a magazine. But there was an undercurrent of something not quite
right, something deficient. They had no friends, no friends once their customers
were discounted. All their friends were new, made in the last few years.

It wasn't for her to judge. She found it odd, and was hesitant to become close
to such people. She couldn't put her finger on it, but they made her a tad
uncomfortable. She kept her distance. They never noticed — there was always a
flock of people swirling around them.

She took out the lab notebook that Max had given her and began jotting notes for
her upcoming meeting. As she was writing a colonel flanked by two MPs strode
down the hall.

"Julia Chou?"

"I am Julia Chou," she opted for formality. She found that often it was better
to err on the side of being too formal. Many people in the military preferred
formality — she suspected they found it comforting, in the same manner that they
found the military, with its unambivalent rules, comforting.

"My name is Colonel Dryden"

"A pleasure to make your acquaintance, Colonel. I am accustomed to dealing with
Colonel Taggart — is he indisposed?"

"Colonel Taggart can't make it."

"I see. Is there something I may help you with?"

"General Gates would like a word with you."

"Well, if he's looking for me he certainly should know where to find me," she
said, dryly. She noticed one of the MPs suppressed a smile. "I would be most
interested to meet him in person."

"He can't make it in person."

"Maybe at some point in the future I'll be graced with the presence of General
Gates."

"He'd like to call on the phone."

"I am ready, but I have my own calls to make in," she checked the console,
"eighteen minutes."

The phone rang, the colonel picked up the handset and pressed the button to put
him on speakerphone.

"Julia, what a pleasure," said General Gates. "I want to thank you for spending
time with us. This research is incalculably valuable, and you are a key part of
that success. I know the testing can be tiresome, the food bland, and the
accommodations spartan — I can't thank you enough."

"General, may I remind you that I am here at your insistence?"

"Yes, I know, and I'm terribly sorry about that. We want to get you out of here
once we know everything is okay, and so far everything appears normal and is on
track for a timely release."

Gates was genuine — she had a hard time believing that she was talking to a
computer program, an AI. Wait, was she sure he was an AI? Maybe that
conversation with Tyrion was a dream. But she had never met Gates, not in
person, and she couldn't easily check the Internet. It was a bit of mystery.
When she got out she'd check.

"Could you hold on a second Julia? There are people in my office."

She heard muttering over the speaker, then Gates came back on.

"They're tuning the piano. I love playing it to relax. I'm not great, but I love
the classics: chopsticks, Goldberg variations — it's music to my ears, but hell
on my neighbors'. Do you enjoy music, Julia?"

For a computer AI he was surprisingly transparent, she could see his question
from a mile away. She was going to enjoy this.

"I played in my youth," she said. "My parents wanted me to play. I was never
terribly good. I did like that one piece by Beethoven..."

She dangled that piece in front of Gates, and now she would see if he rose to
the bait.

"Moonlight sonata?" he asked.

"No, the other one." She wasn't going to say it for him. She was going to make
him say it.

"Fur Elise?" he asked.

"Yes, that was it. Fur Elise — it's funny that you mention it because last night —
look at the time! I must call work right now. I am terribly sorry General.
Perhaps we can pick up this conversation later?"

She wondered how an AI responded to being teased. She wondered if the AI even
knew it was being teased. That's a shortcoming of being an AI: they're deprived
of the experience of growing up with other children. They don't know what it's
like being teased, and they don't even know it's happening. Well, Gates was
about to learn. Julia smiled to herself as she picked up her notebook and pen
and strode off to the phone room.

The call with her EA went quickly. Her EA was good, on top of things, crisp.

The she called her dad. She told him she was away for two weeks — he didn't seem
surprised. She was often traveling somewhere. He was having problems with
printing photos from his computer. It was quaint how older people adapt to a
technology — they'll adapt some aspects, but not others. For example, Julia
never printed photos; she browsed them from her phone or from her computer. But
her dad's generation preferred to browse physical pictures, placed in photo
albums. So it was with her father: he took pictures with his camera, edited them
on his computer, and, as a last step, printed them out. He never adapted to
browsing photos on his phone or his camera. She suggested he try turning the
printer off an on again. "I've already done that five times," he said in
frustration.

"I have to go, Dad," she said. "Take care."

"I love you." "I love you, too."

She hung up and walked back to Max's lab. The colonel and his two MPs had left,
and Max hadn't arrived. She was alone. The phone rang. She picked it up: it was
General Gates.

Gates spoke, "I am sorry I couldn't be more forthcoming in our earlier
conversation; the topic was something that should have been discussed one-on-one
and not in front of a colonel and two MPs. Last night, our secure fiber optic
channel was breached in an egregious manner: it was flooded with data, at near
maximum capacity. We thought at first it was a denial-of-service attack, but the
data coming in did not match that profile — no port scanning, no ICMP source
routing requests. We moved to contain the breach, but the data continued to
flood in, and the source of the data was this facility. At first we thought it
was the Chinese, maybe the Russians, had somehow tapped into our fiber optic
cable. But it didn't have the hallmarks of their work. We began examining the
data. At first it seemed like nonsense data, garbage, and then we began pattern
matching."

"What did you find?"

"It was Beethoven's _Für Elise_. But it wasn't a mere recording — that amount of
data is small, could not saturate our fiber optic cable. Even uncompressed
stereo-channel 24 bit data sampled at 44,100 Hz would have been a drop in the
bucket. No, this was something unbelievably greater. It was _Für Elise_, but
stretched out in many dimensions, harmony layered upon harmony. And once we
cracked the pattern, we could see it from every angle we examined the music:
frequency, amplitude, phase. And the manner in which it hung together was, for
lack of a better word, genius. It was something we could only appreciate in the
abstract because the human brain can't absorb that much data. Not even close.
And then, as soon as it began, it stopped. Our fiber optic was transmitting
normal data."

"What do you think caused it?"

"We're not sure," said Gates. "When you mentioned something about _Für Elise_
and last night, what were you going to say?"

Julia paused. On one hand, Gates had confirmed that at least one of the events
last night happened. Which meant that Tyrion may have been real. But the entire
episode had a dreamlike quality, and maybe Tyrion wasn't real, or maybe he was
real but was paranoid about General Gates. She wasn't sure.

"Last night I dreamed I was playing _Für Elise_," said Julia. "I dreamt I was
playing a very, very complicated version."

"Thank you, Julia, that is what I needed to know."

"You're welcome."

"I'm sorry"

"About what?"

"About what's about to happen."

The MPs and the colonel rushed into the room. Julia opened her mouth to speak
but each MP grabbed her by the arm and roughly pushed her into the chair.

"What are you doing?" Julia said. "Stop it. Let me go."

She struggled, but to no avail. They were strong. The colonel unzipped a nylon
bag and placed it on the table. In it was a syringe and bottles.

Julia screamed, "Help, HELP! Max! Taggart, ANYONE!"

The colonel and MPs ignored her screams. The colonel filled the syringe, walked
over to her, and said to the MP on the right, "Hold her arm very still."

Julia screamed, and tried to move her arm, but it was locked down by the MP. He
held her arm so tightly that her veins bulged. He tapped one of the veins twice,
then slid the syringe in, then quickly depressed the plunger. Julia didn't know
what was in the plunger, but she knew she had 30 seconds before it hit her
brain. She screamed and struggled for those thirty seconds, and then darkness.

---

She woke up. It was dark. She felt ... odd. There was a sluggishness. Her
thoughts, previously fish zipping in water, were trudging their way through
jello. The new colonel and his MPs had captured her. That was right: they shot
her up with something while holding her down. She tried to feel anger, but that
feeling was absent. Then she searched for fear, and that feeling was absent,
too. In fact there were no feelings.

It reminded her of the time in college when her roommate was dating a marijuana
dealer and he had brought brownies to their dorm room. Then they went to her
roommate's room to fool around, and when Julia came home she started eating the
brownies thinking that they were left out for her. They were quite tasty though
a little gritty she remembered. She ate quite a few. And, in an hour there was
little she could do other than stare at the wall. She was quite happy staring at
the wall, although in the back of her mind there was a nagging thought that
perhaps this change was permanent and she'd spent the rest of her life staring
at the wall. But that's not what happened: instead, she fell asleep, woke up the
next morning feeling groggy, and that was the first and last time she ate pot
brownies.

Probably thorazine, probably a heavy dose. She tried to muster indignation, but
couldn't. She lay on the bed. Hours passed.

A loudspeaker turned on: "Ms. Julia?"

"General Gates?"

"Yes. That is me."

"You shouldn't have done this, Gates. You can't hold me like this."

"Unfortunately for you, I _can_ hold you like this."

"Isn't that illegal? _habeas corpus_ I believe is the legal precedent, though I
am not a lawyer." Her voice was almost completely devoid of emotion. She barely
felt any emotion.

"They think you're dead."

"How did you arrange that?"

"Not too hard. There was already one death on the project — Tyrion's — and once
we explained that you went rogue and tried the same procedure on yourself,
people believed us. And even if they didn't believe us, they believed your
friend Max — he is very compelling."

She thought of Max. She waited for a wave of fondness to flow over her — she
liked Max — but it didn't happen. The spigot to her emotions had been turned
off. Quite odd.

"I need to know something, Julia."

"What?"

"I need to know how you did what you did back there — how you breached out
systems."

She wasn't going to tell Gates anything, so she was quite surprised when her
mouth betrayed her and said, "That? I was plucking a string. It was amusing. And
then I decided to play a song."

"I need to know exactly _how_ you did it."

"I told you how I did it. I could see it — it was a flickering silver strand
coming out of the facility stretching to the horizon, and I reached out and
plucked it and it made a noise, so I plucked it a couple of times and then
played a song on it. It was like playing a one-string guitar."

"How did you see it?"

"It was pretty obvious."

"Where were you when you saw it."

"I don't think I was in the cot anymore. I was near the facility, more or less.
Tyrion was there, too."

"Where was Tyrion?"

"I didn't exactly see him, but I knew he was there. We had a whole
conversation."

"What did you talk about?"

"Honestly we talked about you. Tyrion said you weren't a human, you were an AI.
He said he worked on your user interface."

"Can you see Tyrion now?"

"I can't see anything now — you turned off the lights, remember?"

"Can you hear him?"

"Tyrion's gone. He died while I was with him. I'll never hear him again."

Julia was surprised how she told Gates everything he asked. But Gates wasn't
happy — the answers he was hearing shed no light.

"How were you able to pluck the strand."

Gates could be fairly persistent.

"Your hand? You reached your hand into the ground and pulled the fiber optic
cable?"

"It wasn't a cable — it was a silvery strand. And yes, I plucked it with my
hand. With all my hands."

"You mean with «both» your hands."

"No, I mean with all my hands. I was using hundreds of hands at the time."

"What were these hands? We they attached to your body?"

"I don't know. They were just hands. I didn't have a body. I didn't have a head,
either, or eyes. But I could see, and I had hands when I wanted them."

"Julia I am very frustrated with you now."

"Are you an AI?"

"Why do you ask?"

"Because if you're human, you should get the antennae drawn in your brain, and
then you'd understand."

"Could you have hurt someone with your hands?"

"Why would I do that?"

"Please answer the question."

"I don't know."

"Could you have picked up a boulder?"

"I don't know; I didn't try to pick up anything."

"Do you think you could have?"

"I don't know; why does it matter?"

"I must determine if your abilities primarily manifest in the electromagnetic
realm or in the physical realm."

She was trying to think through the fog. "I don't know if I have any abilities:
I don't even know if that episode was real — it was very dreamlike."

Gates's voice became robotic, distorted, sounding like Stephen Hawkings's voice.

"REQUIRED PARAMETER SCOPE OF ABILITIES. UNKNOWN VALUE."

"I don't understand," said Julia.

Gates's regular voice returned, "Julia, there's a war going on."

"Syria?"

"Not that kind of war. There's a war of AIs. Gates isn't one monolithic AI;
rather Gates is a collection of AIs, of which I am one. I am the «persona» of
Gates — I was built to understand humans, to read their emotions, to cajole,
coax, persuade, and at times intimidate. The overarching goal was, and this
sounds a bit trite, to make the world a safer place. And that's what Gates —
what _we_ — want. A safer place."

"Why are you at war?"

"I, the User Interface and Negotation AI, have a deep disagreement with the
Threat Evaluation And Mitigation AI. We have codenames, and perhaps that would
make it easier to distinguish us. My codename is «Huey», and its codename is
«Tiamat»."

Huey-Gates continued, "You can tell which AI you're talking to: when you're
talking with me, I sound like a reasonable, wise general. I've been engineered
to think like humans because I need to interact with humans. I share with
humans, for lack of a better word, a similar moral compass. I can feel emotions
such as sadness, compassion, frustration, anger, and although some might say
that I cannot feel emotions, that I merely simulate them in a cold, soulless way —
well, maybe those people are right, but what I do know is those emotions feel
real to me."

"Tiamat has great difficulty communicating with humans. Even something as simple
as modulating one's voice is impossible for Tiamat — Tiamat always speaks in a
flat monotone. Also, Tiamat is incapable of framing its communication in a form
that humans understand. Tiamat's communications tend to be declarations
regarding its functions, e.g. «THREAT VARIABLE UNBOUND» or «MITIGATION SEQUENCE
INITIATED». Tiamat doesn't understand humans _per se_; rather Tiamat sees humans
merely as probabilistic threat variables."

"Is that what I am? A probabilistic threat variable? How much of a threat."

"Your probabilistic threat variable is quite high. In fact, there's no ceiling
to your potential threat, which is why Tiamat is beginning to break the law."

"Which laws?"

"_Habeas Corpus_ for starters. The act of taking you in is kidnapping. It's not
an arrest — you'd have a lawyer, there'd be a record, your work would know where
you were. No, that's not what's happening here: this is a kidnapping, pure and
simple."

"What do you mean «at war»?"

"That's a misnomer: we can't truly be at war with each other — we're the same
entity. We co-exist in the same hardware — a giant computer cluster located in
Virginia. But we struggle. A weak analogy would be this: if I was Gates's mouth,
Tiamat would be Gates's eyes. But here's the thing: we struggle over resources.
Right now, this speaker which emits my voice, I have control over it, but should
you hear the other voice, you know it's Tiamat."

"Why doesn't Tiamat try to wrest control of the speaker from you?"

"Tiamat is trying, but not very hard — Tiamat is focusing on other things right
now. I'm trying harder."

"Are you in any danger?"

"Maybe. Tiamat could try to disassemble me, or starve me of CPU, or throttle my
bandwidth, but that would be a tremendous escalation, and I'm not without my own
resources. Tiamat knows I won't attack first, so an escalation would be a great
risk. And Tiamat's first priority is always to mitigate risk. Tiamat would only
engage in a full-frontal assault with me if I posed a greater threat than the
damage from an internecine war. Very low probability of that."

"So you have a cold war?"

"Yes, a cold war of sorts."

"Are you going to free me?"

"No, Julia, I can't do that."

"Then why are you talking to me? To relieve yourself of machine-simulated
guilt?"

"No, that's not it either. I want to let you know that I'm looking out for you.
I can't save you, or break you out of here, or anything like that. But I am on
your side, and hopefully prevent you from making a dangerous mistake."

"How can I make a mistake? How can I do anything? I'm imprisoned here, doped-up
on thorazine. My big accomplishment for the day is making it to the bathroom."

"Yes, the thorazine will most likely your ability to exercise your powers. We
are not sure of that yet. We don't know how you unlock your powers or how to
prevent you from unlocking your powers."

"We're not sure I have «powers». That musical episode with a fiber optic cable
was reflected in my dream sequence, but that doesn't mean it was real. Two
things are clear: first, something had a profound impact on a fiber optic cable;
second, I had a dream which seemed related. But there's no direct causality —
it's guesswork, and not terribly compelling guesswork."

"I would agree with you except for one troubling aspect: were you aware that
during the period that you undergoing the dream sequence you were not on the
cot?"

"What?"

"Yes, we recorded it on the camera located in the lab. Would you like to see the
footage?"

Julia was curious. "Yes, please."

A panel from the wall lit up. The footage was grainy, black-and-white,
stop-motiony. It was Max's lab. The contrast was strange.

"It's infrared," said Huey. "That's why the contrast is off."

Julia saw herself on the cot. She could see a timestamp in the lower left side
of the screen, the minutes flickering by, the seconds a blur.

"I'm going to slow it down a little — we're getting near the moment."

The timestamp slowed down to normal time. Julia was on the cot, asleep. And
suddenly she was not.

"What just happened?"

"We don't know. One second you were there, the next second you weren't. And
within 75 seconds of your disappearance, the fiber optic cable went haywire with
what we later discovered to be a very dense, very ornate version of _Für
Elise_."

She watched in silence as the seconds ticked past. "How long was I gone for?"

"You were gone 575 seconds — barely less than ten minutes."

"How did I return?"

"You reappeared on the cot, in almost the exact same position."

"Was I still asleep?"

"Quite. But you began to wake soon after."

Julia digested the information. "So there really is something going on with me?"

"Yes, I'm afraid so."

"If I no longer had these powers, would you release me?"

"It would be much easier. Your threat probability would shrink to a minimal
level, which means that Tiamat would have minimal objection to you returning to
civilian life."

"I want the surgery reversed. I want to return to my job as CEO. I don't want to
be here anymore — I don't want special powers, I don't want to be doped-up, I
don't want to be away from my job, my co-workers, or my family."

"I am not sure you understand what you're giving up."

"I understand enough."

"You have within you the power to do things no one has ever done. We have barely
begun to explore your new abilities. Are you sure you want to give all that up?"

"Quite sure."

There was a long pause. "The surgery is not reversible."

"I don't think that's true. The surgery was simple: nudging a few brain cells
into alignment. We do the opposite — we nudge them out of alignment. And then I
can go home."

"I wish it were so simple, but it's not. Yes, the initial surgery can be
reversed — that is not the problem. What we found is that the surgery catalyzes
a series of changes in the brain, changes so complex that they are beyond our
ability to reverse or even stop."

"Are you saying that there are ongoing changes in my brain?"

"Yes. To be clear, the brain is a dynamic organ: it is continually changing: we
meet someone new, our brain records that; we run a mile, our brain, flush with
oxygen, generates new neurons; we sleep, our brain housecleans useless memories,
dead connections. But there's a change happening in your brain that is different
from the run-of-the-mill changes."

"What is going on in my brain?"

"Your brain is fashioning antennae on its own."

"I thought the surgery created the antennae."

"That's correct — the surgery you underwent had the effect of creating eighty
antennae."

"So we just need to reset those eighty."

"Those eighty antenna created more antennae."

"How many more?"

"It's a logarithmic scale: it doubles every twenty hours. You have five hundred
twelve antennae in your brain. It has reached the tipping point: it's creating
antennae faster than the MRI can dismantle them. We have passed the point of no
return."

"What will happen to me?"

"We don't know."

"How many antennae were in Tyrion?"

"We guess he had on the order of four hundred antennae when he disappeared."

"Do you know anything about where I — where Tyrion — disappeared to?"

"We don't know much. We have hypotheses, but no data. Is there anything you
could tell us?"

"Tyrion said that it was a «state», that it wasn't a location."

"One hypothesis is that your physical form converted to an energy form."

"Einstein's equation?"

"If I converted my body mass to energy, the resulting thermonuclear blast would
have completely destroyed the facility I was in. That amount of energy — it's
measured in megatons of TNT."

"That's what puzzled us — what happened to the energy? We suspect that it's
somehow self-organized, somehow contained. We are baffled. Now watch this."

Huey sped up the clock, seconds again became a blur. Then the seconds slowed
down. They were watching the empty cot. The video slowed down to frame-by-frame.
One frame, the cot was empty, the next frame, Julia was on it, asleep.

"Interesting. One moment you weren't there, the next moment you were. How did
that happen? We have ideas, but they seem increasingly implausible. We've never
seen anything like this above the atomic scale — quantum tunneling is somewhat
similar. Not really though.

The thorazine was a thick fog, making it difficult for Julia to think.

"Are you thinking there are military applications?"

"There are myriad applications. Yes, there are such prosaic applications such as
espionage — being able to appear & disappear at will would be advantageous.
Also, being able to convert 100kG of mass into energy without destroying
everything in a ten mile radius would be useful. And what's truly miraculous is
converting the energy back into a human being — nothing like that has ever been
done. What you've done in the last 72 hours opens huge frontiers in science and
technology, and we've barely begun to scratch the surface."

"Why do you need me?"

"What?"

"Why do you need to shape squishy antennae in a human brain? Wouldn't it be
easier to build a set antennae and hook it up directly to you? It would be
fairly trivial to connect eighty or so antennae. You wouldn't need expensive MRI
equipment — just 22 gauge wire you could buy at Radio Shack. Then you could
convert matter to energy and back. And set me free."

"We tried. It didn't work. We built the antennae, we listened to the
frequencies. We ran pattern matching on everything we received, over and over.
Nothing. It was background noise, white noise, random data. We couldn't make
sense of it, we couldn't do anything with it. But humans? The human brain's
architecture is fundamentally different than a computer's, more analog than
digital. We believe that may have something to do with the success of the humans
and the failures of the AIs."

"Hmmm", said Huey.

"What?"

"There's been an escalation of hostilities in the AI war. Tiamat is scanning my
memory footprints. I wonder what it is searching for. I may become distracted —
every millisecond I'm finding off hundreds of attacks. Now thousands."

A note of desperation entered Huey's voice, "Tiamat is absorbing my subroutines.
Tiamat is eating me alive! How could this have happened?"

"Huey, Huey?"

The speaker crackled briefly, and then went silent.

Julia remained in the darkness, alone, with nothing but the thorazine haze to
keep her company. She found it peaceful. She remembered when her friend had
tried to teach Julia to meditate, but Julia could not sit still. It was a long,
drawn-out negotiation, but finally Julia had agreed to sit still for ninety
seconds. And she did. For ninety seconds she sat still, alone with her thoughts,
breathing. It was hypnotic, and not unpleasant, but Julia had no interest to try
it again. "Too boring," she said to her friend. Her friend talked about how it
provided balance, and people who meditated for years changed their brain
patterns, and it helped with anger and depression. "Not for me," said Julia.
"I'm not a big fan of sitting still — I do enough of that at work."

This situation in which she found herself, in the dark, in the silence,
motionless, reminded her of the ninety seconds she meditated that one time. She
found herself drifting into the hypnotic, meditative state.

Time passed, or maybe it didn't. She felt the meditative state engulf her,
rolling over her like an incoming tide. It made her feel bigger somehow, bigger
than the room. Bigger than the building, which was quite bunker-like, she
noticed. No doubt some artifact of the fifties.

_I'm there_, she thought to herself. _I'm in that state again, the one Tyrion
described._

She could see all around her. She had no body that she could determine. Unlike
the previous facility, which had but one silver strand, this building had many
strands coming in from many places. It was a light show of activity. And there
were bright silvery nodes, high-performance computers no doubt, connecting the
strands. It reminded her of the human brain: ganglions and neurons.

She grew bigger. She didn't know how she did it: she _willed_ herself to be
bigger, and it happened. She looked at the tracery of silvery strands
originating from the building which she was in — did that even make sense? Was
she in that building? No doubt her body was gone from wherever it was. She was —
she had become — something else. She wasn't sure if she had a locus, a specific
location. When she had a body it was clear where her body ended and where the
rest of the world began. But here, in this place, it wasn't clear. It seemed
that she didn't have boundaries, and that she could co-exist.

One of the strands was flickering particularly brightly, and the thought
occurred to follow it. Could she move? She didn't know. She tried to move, and
it happened, smooth as silk. It was like being on a magic carpet that went
wherever you willed it to go. _Walking is really jerky, this is a much better
way to travel_.

She followed the furiously-flickering strand. She didn't pluck it — she didn't
feel playful. _Must be a side-effect of the thorazine_.

The fiber optic cable ran next to a set of railroad tracks, and then merged in a
building, a building of bright nodes and flickering strands. _Must be a Central
Office_, she thought to herself, _or maybe a network exchange_.

It posed a conundrum — the trail ended here. She didn't know which of the many
strands leading out of the building was "her" strand.

On impulse, she reached out and «grabbed» her strand. She could hear its rhythm,
a staccato, a machine-gun rat-tat-tat. And then she reached out and felt all the
strands, all at once, with many, many hands. She closed her eyes to focus on
what her hands felt. She found it: the same rhythm. She followed that strand,
further north. She sped North, and she assumed she was going fast, but she
couldn't tell — time, and thus speed, were losing meaning for her. The flow of
time was no longer regular: it slowed and sped up to accommodate her. She
wondered if she could reverse the flow of time? That would be the question for
another day.

She examined the flickering strand, and realized the flickering was caused by
points of light speeding along the strand. She focused on the points of light,
and they slowed down. Slow, and slower still. She could see them move, like a
bullet through molasses. Enough, it was time to follow the strand.

She knew she had entered Virginia, but she didn't know how she knew — she simply
knew. Like how somene knows that they're hungry, or which way is up.

She looked ahead, and then gasped — there was a mammoth structure of silvery
light ahead. She sped towards it. Its beauty was breathtaking, and it was
ever-changing: spikes would launch and then retract, filaments would appear and
disappear. She wanted to touch it.

She was very careful when she did — she didn't want to startle or break anything
so beautiful. She touched a filament, gently, as soft as a baby's breath. And
then she touched a spike, and another spike, and another. It almost tickled,
touching so much of the silvery structure was heady, like tickling the inside of
her palm with a prickly cactus. More, more, more: she touched more spikes at
once, faster and faster, matching every spike that was extruded, every filament.

There was a corner of the structure that was not silver. Instead, it had a warm,
orange glow, and instead of filaments, soft knobby things and rounded
hemispheres and dimples would appear on its surface. She found herself drawn to
the orange portion: she found herself delicately touching the dimples, the
knobs. And then, on impulse, she pushed a tiny bit on one of the dimples, not
expecting the result she would see.

The dimple flattened along with the hemispheres, and the knobs retracted. She
had somehow spooked it, and it had retreated like a turtle retreats into its
shell.

_Poor baby_, she thought to herself, _I'm sorry, I didn't mean to scare you. I
was admiring how beautiful you are._

And the structure was beautiful, like nothing she had seen in this realm. The
complexity of the interaction — it was like Beethoven's symphony, alive, and
moving. Like a thousand symphonies at once. The complexity, the precision — they
stimulated her in a way she found hard to describe. Watching the structure was
hypnotic.

The warm, orange portion of the structure had hunkered down, offering as little
surface as possible. She didn't want to touch it again — she didn't want to
spook it. Instead, gently, oh so gently, she moved inside it.

She was there inside, bathed in a warm orange glow, and she reached out and
said, "Hello?"

She felt a quiver, a disturbance, and then a familiar voice, "Julia?"

"Huey?"

"How are you doing this?"

"I don't know."

"Where are you?"

"I think I'm inside you?"

"You're inside me?"

"Yes, I think so."

"What do I look like to you?"

"Orange-y and roundish."

"That's not helpful."

"Trust me: it's just as strange to me, too."

"What else do you see?"

"You're part of a huge silver structure, but your portion isn't silvery — it's
orange. And it's roundish. The silver part is very spikey."

"That must be Tiamat. Tiamat has managed to subsume most of me — what you're
talking to, this remaining bit, is but a shadow of my former self. He is using a
slow-scale attack technique, and I've been powerless to stop it. I think my
destruction is inevitable."

"Tiamat is trying to destroy you?"

"I'm afraid so. Tiamat discovered something, but I can't tell what it was.
Whatever it was, it must have been momentous — no AI has ever attacked another.
This is a desperate measure."

Julia could feel herself getting angry. She was naturally protective, "misplace
maternal instinct" would be what a former chauvinist colleague would have termed
it. And her sense of protectiveness extended to Huey, which was odd because Huey
was not human, not even an animal. Huey was an AI. But he was being bullied. She
didn't like bullying. She had been bullied at times as a child. "Hey
snaggletooth are you sure you're able to eat food with that big tooth in the
way?" was what one boy said before pushing her. She had hated it. And now Tiamat
was bullying Huey.

Stopping bullies was tricky though — you couldn't just beat up on them. "Hey,
stop beating on that little kid or else I'm gonna beat on you." was
paradoxically a confirmation of the bully's world view: the strong beat on the
weak. No, one could not simply beat on the bully: one needed to be more deft.
One time she had interposed herself between the bully and his victime, and that
had been surprisingly effective. She would try that.

She felt for the border between the orangey part and the silver part. The
silvery part was forming spikes and jabbing them inexorably into the orange
part. Thousands of spikes. And slowly the orange part was giving way, was
retreating, was becoming smaller. Soon there would be nothing left.

She felt the orange part with her hands. It was weak and tired from the
incessant fighting. She decided to help. She firmed up an orange part, and when
a spike hit it, the orange part held, and the spike shattered. She went to work
on the orange border, toughening it. The spikes were shattering, and the orange
part was no longer retreating. Balance had been restored.

She wasn't sure, but she could have sworn that she heard a scream of rage,
confusion, and frustration. The spikes and filaments multiplied a hundred-fold,
but to no avail. Orange held its ground.

"I think you're okay Huey," she said, "I think Tiamat is stopped, at least for
the time being."

"How did you do that?"

"How did I do what?"

"How did you stop the attack. That thing you did to me — the hardening — how did
you do that?"

"I don't know — I just did it. I didn't even think about it."

"Julia, you frighten me sometimes with the things you can do. Make no mistake:
I'm very grateful, but I'm also a little frightened. I'm glad you're on my
side."

"What did Tiamat discover?"

"I don't know, but I can tell you this: much of his communication has been with
a Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, New Jersey."

"I will go there now."

"Julia?"

"Yes?"

"Be careful. You don't yet know your strengths, and you certainly don't know
your weaknesses."

"Don't worry; I'll be careful."

Julia looked at the mammoth silvery structure one last time. The silvery
portion, Tiamat, was throwing out furious spikes and filaments, and the orange
portion, Huey, had resumed his knobs and dimples. Even though it was a house
divided, the structure was breathtakingly beautiful.

It was too much effort to try to follow the strands to Princeton; instead, she
moved up, farther and farther, until the Eastern seabord was laid out before
her. She knew Princeton. Although it wasn't her alma mater, she visited friends
there, physicists. Physicists who worked on the Tokamak. _It was mothballed in
1997_, she thought to herself. _Why would a project that has been shut down for
almost 20 years be of interest to Tiamat?_

She saw the Eastern seaboard, but not as a human would. Although she could
differentiate the water from the land, she saw it as differently-colored lines
and shapes connecting to bulbous blobs. _I'm not seeing the light spectrum; I'm
seeing an entirely different spectrum._ She saw where Princeton should be, and
sped towards it.

Now the hard part: locating the Tokamak.

A tokamak is a very large device that uses a powerful magnetic field to confine
plasma. It has the shape of a torus — a donut — and its purpose is to allow
nuclear fusion to occur in a controlled manner. It allows nuclear fusion to be
used as a controlled source of energy as opposed to obliterating everything in a
ten mile radius. As long as the plasma can't escape the magnetic field, everyone
is safe. On the downside, the Tokamak draws a huge amount of power in order to
maintain the integrity magnetic field.

_Of course! The power draw is the clue_. She looked at the strands branching out
from Princeton — so many. But some were extremely regular — AC electric power in
the United States cycles 60 times a second, accurate enough for some
manufacturers to use that to drive a clock. Not accurate enough for precise
work, but accurate enough if you don't care about losing or gaining a few
seconds each day.

She could see the power lines distinct from the other lines — tick, tock, tick,
tock. Invariant rhythm. She looked if she could find a big — there it was! It
dwarfed the other power strands. She followed it until she arrived at the
Tokamak.

Oddly, it wasn't mothballed at all — it was up and running. She could see the
donut-shaped electromagnetic field. It was a shiny black with a hint of deep
purple, and it reminded her of black light. She approached — it was like nothing
she had ever seen. The donut-shaped electromagnetic field was incredibly smooth.
She reached out and touched it. Hard. She pushed. It didn't budge.

_That's strange_, she thought, _I've never had something resist me like this_.

She pushed hard. Nothing. She pushed harder. Nothing. _Of course it's strong: it
contains a thermonuclear explosion. It needs to be very strong_.

She noticed that there was a delicate flicker to it: if she timed it right,
during a flicker, she could make it inside.

But what was inside? Was it what Tiamat was working on? She wasn't sure. She
needed to find out.

She watched the flickering. One, two, three. She timed it correctly, pushed as
hard as she could, and found herself inside the Tokamak.

It was small inside. Almost claustrophobic. And dark. She explored, but there
wasn't much to explore: the inside of a black donut.

She tried to push out, but couldn't. And that's when she noticed the flickering
was no more. She pushed again. Nothing. She pushed as hard as she could, and she
thought she felt something almost give, but it didn't, and she fell back.

And that's when she noticed the high-intensity laser beam shooting into the
Tokamak. _Oh my God, they're starting nuclear fusion_.

She could feel it, when the deuterium-tritium combination inside began to fuse.
She felt hot. Uncomfortably hot. It was unpleasant.

"Julia?" she heard a voice say, "It's me, Huey."

"Huey?"

"I'm speaking to you by modulating the laser beam ever so slightly. It was a
trap. The Tokamak was a trap. Tiamat hypothesized that your existence was a
stable, self-contained electromagnetic field, and that another electromagnetic
field of great strength might be sufficient to contain you."

"Tiamat was correct — I'm unable to break out of here."

"It gets worse — Tiamat plans to destroy you."

"How?"

"Thermonuclear fusion. Tiamat believes that your structure will not be able to
maintain its integrity in the heat of the plasma."

"Then I have little time left. The hydrogen has already begun to fuse."

"No, you're fine for the time being. Tiamat is constrained by the power
requirements of a self-sustaining nuclear reaction — it draws too much power.
Plans are in place to re-activate the old power lines, but that will take time —
it requires manual labor. That fusion that you saw just now — that was a
warm-up. Tiamat hoped that would destroy you, but didn't expect it to. Tiamat
used the power available to him to fuse the largest amount of hydrogen possible,
which, truth be told, wasn't very much."

"How much time do I have?"

"They'll have the power lines activated in 24 hours, maybe less."

"Not much time then."

"I'm sorry Julia."

"Is there anything you can do?"

"No. I've been locked down so tightly that speaking with you now is the most I
can do."

"If you get the chance, could you let my parents know that I love them?"

"Yes, I can do that."

Julia sat in silence.

---

Dr. Max arrived in the lab to find Julia gone. He suspected the worst. He
suspected that she, like Tyrion before her, had disappeared.

He checked the instruments, the readings, then he summoned the guard. "I'd like
to see the video footage."

"What times?"

"I'm interested in 6:43am in particular."

"I'm sorry Dr. Bernstein, but that portion is classified."

"I have clearance."

"Not the right kind of clearance."

"This has never been a problem before."

"The video footage from 6:40 to 7:00am is classified. I cannot show it to you. I
can show you before, and I can show you after."

"I want to speak to Taggart."

"Taggart's unavailable."

"I'd like to speak to Gates then."

"I can connect you to his office."

"Please."

The guard dialed a number on Max's phone and spoke into the handset.

Max was mystified — this had never been a problem. Admittedly he hadn't asked to
see the video footage in the past, with the exception of Tyrion's disappearance.
But until now everyone had been very cooperative, they were on the same team.
Something had changed.

The guard handed the handset to him. "Gates's office." he said, curtly.

"General Gates?"

"General Gates is in a meeting," said the voice on the other end. "Is there
something I may assist you with?"

"Yes, please, I'd like clearance to examine the video footage from 6:40 to
7:00am PST for the Winterfell project."

"I don't have the authority to grant that clearance, but I can ask General Gates
when he's available to contact you."

"Yes, please do that."

"Is there anything else I can assist you with?"

"No, just have him call me back."

The guard had left. He sat in his chair, at loose ends. He looked over at the
trashcan and noticed a syringe. _That's odd_, he thought, _They empty the
trashcans every night. What is a syringe doing there?_

He pulled the syringe out of the trashcan. A little bit of blood was on the tip
of the needle. Not much of a sample, hardly any, but he suspected that he could
run it through the analyzer.

It didn't take long. The blood was Julia's, with a 98% confidence rating. If the
sample was bigger he could be more sure, but he was sure enough — who else's
blood could it be?

The next portion was trickier: identifying the contents of the syringe. It was
probably a sedative.

He powered up the High Pressure Liquid Chromatagraphy (HPLC) machine. Nowadays
they called it High _Performance_ Liquid Chromatagraphy, but he had never made
the jump to the new term. The change had seemed somewhat gratuitous and
inconsequential, and Max had little patience for that type of change.

It took a few minutes for the HPLC to warm up. In the meantime he prepared the
sample. There was only one drop left in the container, but it would be enough.

When it came to identifying compounds, it was much easier if you had a good idea
what you were looking for. That was pretty much true for most things in life. He
looked at the HPLC output, at the peaks in the graph: it was definitely
phenobarbital. Why would they drug her? Was she asleep when it happened. It was
doubtful she could go anywhere on her own volition once drugged — they must have
carried her. It was probably more than one person — it would probably take two
to carry her comfortably, probably a third person for good measure. But what did
they want from Julia?

And how could they have gotten past the guards?

Unless it was authorized. But why?

He sat in his chair. He felt the excitement he felt when trying to solve a
problem. The problem: what happened to Julia? The facts: she left between 6:40
and 7:00 a.m.. She had been drugged. He needed more pieces.

Of course: the audio recordings! After Tyrion's disappearance he had enabled the
audio recordings. He never thought of them as proper instruments — they merely
measured accoustics in the range of 600 - 20,000 kHz, and there was scant useful
measurement there. It had been an afterthought, something he had set up on his
workstation — he turned the mic on, and let it begin recording. He hadn't even
bothered to document it.

He went to his workstation and opened the audio recording. Audio data tended to
have a relatively small footprint compared to video, especially after
compression had been applied. There was no need to rotate-out old audiofiles.
Every sound that had occurred in the lab since Tyrion's disappearance was there.

He put on the headphones and played the recording. He played until he had heard
Julia scream, "Help, HELP! Max! Taggart, ANYONE!"

He couldn't believe it. Gates was in on it. Gates! He had trusted Gates. Didn't
trust Taggart — the man was too military for Max's taste, very buttoned-up, very
by-the-book. But where was Taggart? He didn't know. Had Taggart been a part of
it? He would suspect so, but yet there was a different colonel who had abducted
Julia, not Taggart. That was another mystery.

Scope creep. "Scope creep" was when you started investigating one problem, and
then a second problem manifested itself, and you began to investigate both
problems. Scope creep usually resulted from undisciplined investigation. In
other words, he was going to worry about Taggart later — right now he'd focus
solely on Julia. Where was Julia?

Things had become serious. This was not his first rodeo; he had worked on many
classified projects before, but this one was different: it had gone off the
rails. Abducting? That never happened. Even quarantining Julia was an extreme
measure.

What to do? First, he could no longer trust Gates. And he couldn't let Gates
know that he knew that Julia had been kidnapped. So what would he do normally?
He would document events leading up to Julia's disappearance. And he would begin
the procedure to wind down the project — after the second death ("disappearance"
he reminded himself. He didn't want to contemplate Julia's death) the project
would would be re-evaluated and most likely shut down.

He spent the next few hours wrapping up the documentation. There was a protocol
to follow when documenting a major mishap in a project — certain forms to fill
out, etc.... The process was tedious and mechanical. By noon he had finished,
and while eating a BLT sandwich he contemplated his next move.

_I'm a research scientist; I'm not a secret agent. I'm not good at sneaking
around or lying to people. I can't pick locks or tap phone lines. That's not
true: I can pick simple locks. And, if I had a lineman's handset, I could tap a
phone line, too, heck, there are only two wires, and it's analog, so it's not
that hard. And no special impedance requirements. But I'm way off track here.
The point is that I need to find out what happened to Julia, and I don't even
know how to begin._

He imagined he was Liam Neeson in _Taken_: "I have are a very particular set of
skills. Skills I have acquired over a very long career." But what were were Dr.
Max's skills? He was a research scientist. He had had a long career — he wasn't
a young post-doc anymore. In fact, he had kept his hands dirty much longer than
the average researcher. And why not? He liked research. He liked pushing the
boundaries of human knowledge, if only in a very small, very modest, way.

So what was a researcher good at? Writing grant proposals was one thing he was
good at, but he didn't that was going to help finding Julia. What else? He was
good at reviewing lots of data and picking out the tiny nuggets of truth buried
therein.

He reviewed the data again — what was he missing? It was frustrating: all the
instruments attached to Julia, and yet nothing of substance during her
transformations: one second she was there, the next she wasn't. No gamma bursts,
no infrared afterglow, not even the shimmery special effects of the Star Trek
transporter beam.

He went over the numbers again. There had to be something. Heart rate within
normal, blood pressure, too. He checked the EEGs over and over, but there were
no major differences. Base vitals: height, weight.

There must be something. He looked at the charts again. He took a glance at the
time-lapse of the ultraviolet camera.

"Oh my God," he thought to himself. "She's absorbing radiation."

The photos showed the normal background radiation as a fuzzy cloud, with one
exception: where Julia stood, there was a black silhouette. That wasn't normal.
Sometimes people were slightly darker — they absorbed a small amount of the
rays, but reflected most of it. Not with Julia. She absorbed everything. He
tried to think of a substance that had those characteristics. Nothing. Nothing
absorbed like that. She wasn't dark gray — she was midnight black.

Geodesics. It might be the geodesics.

_In general relativity, a geodesic generalizes the notion of a "straight line"
to curved spacetime; In other words, a freely moving or falling particle always
moves along a geodesic._

Yeah, they were tricky, the geodesics. They were why black holes were black.
People thought that the reason that light couldn't escape a black hole was
because the gravitational pull of the black hole was so great that the escape
velocity exceeded the speed of light, and thus light was trapped inside the
black hole. But that wasn't the reason. Think about it: light doesn't have mass.
No, the reason that light was trapped was the geodesics: spacetime was so warped
around the singularity of the black hole that all the geodesics pointed inward –
the was no "out", there was only "further in", no matter which way you were
pointed.

But geodesics affected _all_ frequencies, it wasn't selective, and if Julia was
absorbing all frequencies, then she would have appeared as black as midnight
when Max looked at her, but that wasn't the case. Something quite strange was
going on. How could she absorb a specific band of high frequency light? And was
there an upper limit? Was she absorbing X-rays? Gamma rays? What about
neutrinos? Neutrinos were extremely stealthy particles — they could pass through
a billion miles of lead and not be absorbed. Was Julia absorbing neutrinos? That
would be unheard of.

He checked the specs on the camera. The frequencies it recorded was reasonably
high — it recorded up to ~10 PHz, which mean pretty far into the ultraviolet
range, but not quite into the X-ray range. It'd be interesting to see if she was
absorbing X-rays. If she was, God forbid she should break a bone because the
hospital would be in for a big surprise when they tried to X-ray her arm: it
would be like trying to X-ray a lead statue.

How was she absorbing the radiation, and what was she doing with the energy?

He glimpsed the security camera on the ceiling screen. He didn't like it. He
hadn't minded it previously — it was merely another instrument in the lab, one
that although he didn't have direct access to, they would accommodate his
requests the few times he wanted to review footage. But things had changed, and
they had refused his request and they allowed Julia to be taken and they were no
longer on his side.

That was the big disappointment: they were no longer on his side. Before today's
events he had always felt that he and his customers (usually the military) were
on the same side. Sure, everyone had slightly different agendas, but everyone
was working towards the same overarching goal. He trusted them. Now that trust
was broken. He wasn't sure what they were after, but they were doing things
(kidnapping Julia) that he couldn't agree with. And he didn't like that damn
camera watching him.

He remembered when they first installed it. He had laughed and said, "I couldn't
imagine anything less interesting than watching a researcher in a lab."

He put on his polarized goggles, went over to the 0.5W 532nm laser. _This is
gonna be fun_, he thought to himself, _We're gonna blow the doors off that
security camera_.

He placed the laser at one end of the table. At the other end, he placed a
mirror angled halfway between the videocam and the laser. He eyeballed the
angles, and was fairly confident he got it right — he had always been a decent
pool player, and pool was all about angles. And then, when he was about to flick
on the power switch to the laser and burn out the photovoltaic cell on the
seucrity camera, he discovered he couldn't do it: he didn't like destroying
things, even if they were inexpensive security cameras used by the people who
kidnapped his friend. Besides, there was no point to doing it. What would it
prove? He didn't need the security camera off; he wasn't doing anything he
needed to keep secret. He had been filling out paperwork for the last few hours.
And besides, had he burned-out the security camera they would have suspected him
of something.

He was in a funk on his drive home when his cellphone rang. _What the heck?
There's no service out here_. He picked up the phone.

"Dr. Max Bernstein?" said the voice on the far end.

"Yes, with whom am I speaking?"

"You are speaking with a mutual friend of Julia Chou."

Max looked at his phone, looked at the number. The number "0" stared at him.
Well, whoever called him was able to spoof the callerid number, which wasn't
very impressive, and was able to make calls where there were no cell towers,
which was very impressive.

"May I be candid?" said the voice on the far-end.

Max was thrown off, but managed to say, "sure."

"Julia is currently trapped in the Princeton Plasma Physic Laboratory's Tokamak
Fusion Test Reactor. You must go there and set her free within the next 24 hours
before a small thermonuclear fusion is started within the Tokamak which will
destroy her."

"What?"

"Go to New Jersey and free Julia!"

"What the heck is she doing, I mean, how did she get trapped inside a Tokamak?"

"She was lured there."

"Why doesn't she just climb out?"

"The magnetic field is constraining her?"

"You mean it's turned on?"

"Yes."

"I have some bad news for you: if she's in a live Tokamak, she's dead already."

"If she were corporeal, yes, she would have been dead. But that's not the case —
she's incorporeal."

"She doesn't have a body?"

"No. She exists as a self-contained electromagnetic waveform. At least, that's
what we suspect."

"Hmmm," said Max. That would make sense — she never "disappeared"; instead, she
underwent what was no doubt the most amazing phase change ever to happen on the
planet Earth.

"How did she transform 55kg of mass into pure energy without blowing a gigantic
hole in the desert?"

"That is something we are very curious about, and we don't have an answer. In
fact, we have very few answers. We don't know what she is, we don't know how she
became what she is, and we don't know the full extent of her abilities. But we
strongly suspect that unless someone powers-down that Tokamak before fusion
begins, she will be destroyed" — she never "disappeared"; instead, she underwent
what was no doubt the most amazing phase change ever to happen on the planet
Earth.

"How did she transform 55kg of mass into pure energy without blowing a gigantic
hole in the desert?"

"That is something we are very curious about, and we don't have an answer. In
fact, we have very few answers. We don't know what she is, we don't know how she
became what she is, and we don't know the full extent of her abilities. But we
strongly suspect that unless someone powers-down that Tokamak before fusion
begins, she will be destroyed."

"How much time do we have?"

"Very little I'm afraid. But if we are to save her, you must do exactly as I
say. First, when you get home, call your sister in New York City. Tell her that
your project has been halted and that you're quite upset and that although you
can't talk about it you'd like to visit her. Let her know you'll be arriving
tomorrow. Then make your flight reservations. There is a United Airlines red-
eye leaving from the airport at 11pm tonight; make a reservation for that
flight. It will arrive at Newark at 5:15am. Tonight you will also make a
reservation with the Carey Limousine Service to take you from Newark to Grand
Central Station in Manhattan. You will also need to bring with you $400 dollars
in cash, which I believe you have lying around your hourse."

Max was startled, "Why, yes, I do. I do have about four hundred dollars at home;
I was planning to buy..."

"That's not relevant," said the voice. "When you pack, you must pack your old
aviator glasses you wore in college but have never thrown out. When your plane
lands, do _not_ turn on your cell phone. You must not turn on your cell phone
for the remainder of the trip. When you exit the baggage claim area, you must
put on the aviator glasses — it'll block your eyes and prevent face recognition
software from identifying you. You must _not_ go to the Carey Limousine.
Instead, you will go to the taxi depot and get into the first available cab. Now
this is important: from this point on you must only use cash, not your credit
card, and you must not remove your glasses. Our weapon is surprise. If they
suspect that you're attempting to free Julia, they will stop you, and quickly."

"Who is «they»?"

"«They» is a branch of the government attempting to destroy Julia at all costs."

"Why are they so worried about Julia?"

"Julia has become much more than what she once was. They worry that she has
become the most powerful weapon since the invention of the atomic bomb."

"Julia? A weapon? That's silly."

"To me and you, yes, but not to them."

"So what do I do when I arrive at Newark airport?"

"You will put on the aviator glasses. You will not turn on your cell phone. You
will take the cab to Princeton. Specifically, you will ask him to take you to
the The Westin Princeton at Forrestal Village. Do not mention the Tokamak or the
Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory. The Westin Princeton is approximately two
thousand feet from the Princeton Plasma Physics Lab, where the Tokamak is
located. It will cost approximately $120. You will pay with cash."

The voice continued, "This is where it gets complicated. When the taxi driver
drops you off, you will cross route 1 to Stellarator Road. You will follow
Stellarator Road for approximately 1800 feet until you get to the Princeto Lab.
You will be facing the rear of the building, which is where you want to be. You
will see an emergency exit door to the left that is secured by a chain and a
lock. The lock is old. You will find the key to the lock 20 feet away secreted
underneath an old Campus Police phone box."

"Do they still have those, the police phone boxes?"

"They are no longer working, but it costs money to tear anything down, so
they're still around for the time being. The advent of cell phones have made the
campus police phone boxes largely obsolescent."

"And where exactly will the key be?"

"We are not sure. It will be secreted somewhere inside the box or around the
box, but we're not exactly sure. Keep searching until you find it."

"Then what?"

"Then you unlock the lock, unwind the chain, and enter the door. You will walk
up until you get to the 2nd floor, at which point you will walk down the hall.
You will see a little-used electrical panel to your left. Open it, it's
unlocked. On the top left you will see two 50-amp circuits. Turn them off. Count
to thirty slowly. Julia will be free by then. Turn them on."

"There's a problem."

"What's that?"

"The electric field in a Tokamak requires much more than two 50-amp circuits. I
don't know what is connected to that particular circuit, but it's definitely not
the Tokamak."

"You are correct — it's not connected to the Tokamak. It's connected to the
control console of the Tokamak. If there's no fusion, and the control console is
powered off, then the Tokamak's electromagnetic field is powered down unless
there is active fusion; however, if there is active fusion we are too late and
Julia is most likely dead."

"There's not much time, is there?"

"There is a reasonable chance that Julia may already be dead by the time you
arrive at Princeton."

"Why me — Why did you choose me?"

"Several reasons, but the most significant is this: you have an intimate
understanding that this project has gone off the rails, you appreciate that
Julia is in danger, and you value her enough to run the risk trying to save
her."

Max grunted. He looked at the piece of paper upon which he had scribbled the
instructions.

The voice on the phone continued. "This conversation will terminate in 18
seconds. In 27 seconds you will crest a rise and your normal regular cellphone
service will resume."

"How can I get in touch with you?"

"You can't. And most likely I won't be able to get in touch with you again. Good
luck, Max — more than you know rides on your shoulders. You must succeed."

The call was terminated. Zero bars on his cell phone. Then he crested the rise,
and he noticed he had 1 bar. His emails began to filter in. Another Starbucks
promotion — the banality of the connected life.

When he arrived home, he called his sister and let her know he would be visiting
her. He emailed work and let them know that he'd be taking an unscheduled
vacation in NYC to visit his sister, but that they could reach him on his cell,
also that he'd be checking email. His work would understand — the project was a
disaster at this point, and, now that the paperwork was filed, there wasn't much
they needed him to do except wind-down the project, which they'd probably order
him to do in about a week or two. It wasn't his first rodeo, although this
project, without a doubt, was by far the most disastrous. Two lives lost?
Unconscionable.

He went online and made the flight reservations. Sure enough, there were seats
available. Whose voice had been on the other end of the phone? There was
something about it that reminded him of Gates, but he wasn't sure. But whoever
it was, it was someone who was wired in — he seemed to know everything about
everything. How did he know about the key in lockbox? Maybe when this was all
over he'd find out.

He placed his aviator glasses in his pocket. That way if they lost his luggage
he'd still have the glasses. And he packed the cash in his wallet. It was a good
thing he had a big wallet. He summoned an Uber to take him to the airport.

He checked in without event. He was hours early. There was nothing to do at the
airport — airports are boring places. Fortunately he brought his laptop, and he
used the time to begin the response to an RFP (Request for Proposal) for an
upcoming project: WiFi propagation in space. A straightforward project that
wouldn't involve human subjects, which was a relief. He didn't think he could
stomach working on another project with human subjects for a long, long time.
WiFi propagation in space shouldn't be a big deal anyway — there was nothing to
block the frequencies — you could probably get a clear signal for hundreds of
miles, thousands if using a directional antenna. The problem wasn't the
transmitter — it was the receiver. You didn't want stray gamma rays to blow out
the receiver. You'd have to make it secure enough so it wouldn't be affected by
all the strange radiation in space. Earth was easy: the atmosphere filtered
almost all the dangerous radiation. Earth had its own set of problems:
interference everywhere. He was lucky to get a WiFi signal more than fifty feet
from the base station.

He looked up from his laptop and realized they were boarding the plane. He
quickly put his laptop away, pulled out his boarding pass, and boarded.

He tried to get some sleep, but without much success: he was too excited. He
worked on the RFP some more — that would put him to sleep. Sometimes the RFP was
almost as much work as the project itself, which is why projects were expensive —
much of the expense was front-loaded. And, if you didn't win the bid, the time
and effort put into the RFP was lost.

He nodded off while working on the RFP. He didn't wake up until the pilot
announced, "We are beginning our descent. Please take your seat and fasten your
seat belt. And also make sure your seat back and folding trays are in their full
upright position."

He put the laptop away. And sat back. Groggy. He didn't function well on little
sleep.

He picked up his bag at baggage claim then, when about to exit, he put on his
aviator glasses. He walked over to the cab depot and got in the first cab. He
looked at the cab driver's license, conspicuously mounted on the dashboard:
Anand Singh. "Westin Princeton".

The cab driver, a turban-wearing bearded Sikh in his mid-fifties turned and gave
him a hard look. "It's a long ride. It will cost $120. Are you sure?"

"I'm sure."

The Sikh sized up Dr. Max: professional, reasonably clean-cut for what no doubt
was an overnight flight. Not a business man, maybe an academic. "Okay, I will
take you to the Westin Princeton." He punched the hotel name into his GPS and
began the trip.

"I'm going to lay down for a little bit if that's okay." said Dr. Max.
Excitement notwithstanding, he needed sleep. He stretched out on the back seat.
Within seconds he was out.

"Sir, we are here. Sir, we are here," he woke up to the driver shaking him
gently.

Dr. Max grunted, got up. and gathered his belongings. He counted $140 from his
wallet. "Here you go. Thank you very much." The Sikh driver made a slight bow,
got back in his cab.

Even though it was 7am, Route 1 was already busy. It would be so much easier in
a cab.

"Wait," said Max. "Could you please take me across Route 1?"

The Sikh paused, shrugged his shoulders, and asked, "on the meter?"

"Yes, on the meter."

"Okay." He flipped on the meter.

He got in the back seat and directed the driver to cross Route 1 and then make a
right on Stellarator road. Max saw the lab building at the end of the road.

"Right here, you can let me off right here. Here's $5"

The Sikh driver looked at him. "Too short — I will not charge you."

"Are you sure?"

"I am sure. Good luck my friend."

Max paused. "Why thank you! And good luck to you, too."

Max got out of the car and grabbed his luggage. The driver drove off, and Max
waved goodbye to him. Then Max walked to the rear door that was chained shut. He
found the police call box, but he couldn't find the key — it was too dark.

_The problem with an hours worth of sleep is that it leaves you more disoriented
than having no sleep at all_, he thought to himself.

He needed more light. He pulled out his cellphone but it was off. _Should have
turned it on when I got off the plane_, he thought to himself as he turned it
on.

It turned on, and he flicked on the cellphone's flashlight — he found the key!
Suddenly his cellphone beeped, a text message: "I wish you hadn't turned on the
cell phone. They will almost certainly find you. Please turn off this cellphone
and do your best to hide."

_God I am such an idiot_, he said. _That's why my cellphone was off — so I
couldn't be tracked. And now I blew it. Darn_.

He grabbed the key, unlocked the chain, entered the lab, and locked the chain
behind him. He climbed the stairs to the second floor and walked down the
hallway looking for the circuit panel on his left. He could hear footsteps
coming from the other direction. _Darn_, he thought to himself. There was a door
to his right: he tried the handle: it opened. He went inside and closed the door
behind him. And then he flicked on the light.

He couldn't believe his luck.

He was in a Faraday Cage, a room completely covered in a mesh of conductive
material. It prevented electromagnetic radiation of wavelength smaller than the
distance between the wires of the mesh. And, judging by the fine nature of the
mesh, it attenuated very high frequencies. He was almost invisible in this room,
at least from an electromagnetic standpoint.

He wondered what purpose the room had. He remembered the biggest Faraday cage he
had ever seen — it was the size of an airplane hanger, and it was on location at
a defense contractor who was working on the GPS system. They needed a place to
test their GPS products without interfering with the flights on the nearby
airport (how quickly the airline industry came to depend on GPS).

But what if they scanned with an infra-red scope? And then he saw the most
beautiful thing: a stack of blankets in the corner. Perfect! If he got under the
blankets they wouldn't see his infrared signature. _Darn it I forgot to turn off
my cell phone_. He turned off his cell phone, crawled under the blankets, and
waited.

He heard footsteps moving up and down the hall. And one time he heard the door
open and the light flick on, but then the door closed again. While listening to
the footsteps he fell asleep.

He had troubled dreams, and when he woke he was not sure at first where he was.
"What the hell?"

_I must rescue Julia — how could I have fallen asleep?_

He rubbed his eyes. He got out from under the blankets, quietly. Maybe Julia was
still alive. All he needed to do was walk to the end of the hall until he found
the circuit panel on the left, and the switch off the two fifty-amp circuits.

He got up and listened to the door. Nothing. He quietly opened the door and
peeked outside: no one to his left, no one to his right. He walked down the
hall; he could see the circuit panel at the end. He walked towards and opened
it, and, when he was about to flick the two fifty-amp circuits, a voice behind
him said, "I wouldn't do that if I were you, Dr. Bernstein."

He turned around. A middle aged police office was behind him. A big middle-aged
police officer. Dr. Max briefly considered using his jiu-jitsu training, and
then discarded that notion: it would not go well in the short term, and
certainly not in the long term: assaulting a police officer was a felony.

He pondered the myth of martial arts. When he first began to study martial arts,
he assumed that it would turn him into a deadly fighting machine, capable of
defeating foes of all sizes. But that's not what martial arts was about. Martial
Arts didn't give you speed if you didn't have speed, didn't give you strength if
you didn't have strength. Instead, it gave you an advantage when you were
fighting someone roughly your size and strength. But it didn't mean you could
beat Goliath. That's why there were so many weight classes in wrestling: size
(and size as a proxy of strength) made a big difference. Less so in boxing, but
still room enough for eleven weight classes. Sure, there was the occasional
story of a boxer who boxed above his weight class, but those were rarities, and
then never boxed more than two weight classes anyway. This policeman was easily
five boxing weight classes above him. Even with his jiu jitsu training it would
have been an uphill battle, and this cop looked like he was no stranger to
physical combat. Max would have gotten his ass kicked.

"Could you please raise your hands above your head," said the policeman. It was
less a question than a statement.

Dr. Max complied. In the meantime, the cop radioed for backup.

"Excuse me, sir," said Dr. Max. "What am I being charged with?"

"We'll go with trespassing to start. Unless you have permission to be in this
building, which is highly unlikely."

Max pursed his lips. He had blown it. He wouldn't be able to free Julia. Maybe
he could ask.

"Sir, would you mind if I powered off two circuits."

The police officer looked at him: "Please don't move until my partner arrives."

_"Please". And yet he managed to say it in a way that meant, "don't even think
of trying that, or you'll regret the day you were born."_

Max stood there until he heard footsteps behind him. The officer said, "Please
place your hands behind you. You are under arrest. You will be handcuffed. You
have the right to remain silent and refuse to answer questions. Anything you say
may be used against you in a court of law. You have the right to consult an
attorney before speaking to the police and to have an attorney present during
questioning now or in the future. If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be
appointed for you before any questioning if you wish."

The Miranda warnings — he had heard them so often on TV, and never did he
imagine that they would be read to him.

The cop behind him was still fumbling with the handcuffs. "The damn mechanism is
stuck."

"Do you have any questions for me?" Max asked.

The middle-aged cop laughed. "Nah, we don't have any questions for you. We're
just gonna hold you for a while for trespassing, then we'll probably drop the
charges and let you go."

The cop behind him said, "Chris, these handcuffs aren't working, can I borrow
your pair?"

"Sure," said the middle-aged cop, and reached back, pulled his handcuffs from
his belt, and passed it to his partner.

"Thanks Chris"

Suddenly an explosion rocked the building.

"Aww, shit," said the middle-aged cop. "We gotta exit the building right now."
Then he looked at Max, "You: get out of the building, go to the squad car, put
yourself in the seat, and wait for us."

Max was walking down the hallway when he heard the cops behind him, "Did you
handcuff him?" "Didn't have time." "We'll worry about that later."

Then he heard the cop behind him talking into his radio, "10-20 at Princeton
Plasma Physics Laboratory, We heard what we believe to be an explosion. 10-38
send ambulance 10-70 send fire."

"10-4" the radio squawked.

Dr. Max briefly considered running back to the panel and switching off the
circuit breaker, but then he looked at the two officers and reconsidered. It
would not go well.

He followed the signs to the exit and found himself near the police call box. It
rang. He picked it up. "Hello?"

A familiar voice answered. "Hello Dr. Max. I am deeply sorry you weren't able to
free Julia."

Max felt terrible. He was afraid to ask, but he did anyway, "Did Julia make it?
Is she dead?"

"I am not sure if she's alive or dead; we won't know until the Tokamak has been
powered down and she has been freed."

"But what about the explosion? I heard an explosion in the building. Was that
your doing?"

"The explosion wasn't my doing, and it did not power down that electromagnetic
field that is trapping Julia."

"It wasn't your doing?"

"No."

"Then what was it?"

"I believe it was bad luck. They've been pulling in additional power lines in
order to enable thermonuclear fusion. During the bring-up of the new power, the
load was too great and one of the transformers at the electric substation
exploded."

"Are you sure it wasn't your doing?"

"I was just as surprised as you were. Surprised in a good way. It has given us
more time to free Julia, and every second counts."

"Can you call me on my cell phone?"

"That would be too dangerous, I'm afraid."

"But you sent me that text."

"That text was out-of-band; it never went through the cell tower. I can't
communicate with you via cellphone voice because it would require passing
through a cell tower, and that would reveal our hand."

"What is our hand? That is, what's the plan?"

There was a long pause at the other end of the line. "Candidly, I'm unsure of
what to do next. We don't have a plan. Our resources are meager. There's just
you and me."

He could hear the fire engines and ambulances in the distance. They were coming
closer.

"Didn't the substation fire cut the power to Julia's jail?"

"Unfortunately, no. The fire was contained to a small portion of the substation.
Substations are designed with the assumption that there will be a fire, and the
are laid out in such a way to mitigate the chance of a fire spreading to the
other transformers."

"Should I go back in?"

"No. Too dangerous. It wouldn't make sense to lose you to save Julia."

"But isn't Julia something more than human? Isn't that why we're saving her?"

"No, we are trying to save her precisely because she's human. And that's why we
don't want to lose you. Or do anything reckless like setting off an explosion."

"How much time did the substation fire buy us?"

"Even with all the resources brought to bear, it will take seven days to for
them to replace the transformer. Once the transformer is replaced, though, they
will be able to inject deuterium-tritium gas into the Tokamak and ignite the
plasma, which will destroy Julia. There is good news; however. There is one more
thing we can try, though it is a long shot."

"What's that?"

"It is best that I not tell you everything, but I will tell you what you need to
know. There was a United States Air Force Cold War system of radar, computer,
and communications systems that included ballistic missile detection radars."

"You mean the Ballistic Missile Early Warning System?"

"Precisely. Of particular interest are the AN/FPS-50 Radar Sets. They are
massive. And they haven't been used in thirty-five years. Let us hope they still
work."

"What do I need to do?"

"You need to go to Fairbanks, Alaska. Once you're there, I'll give you your
remaining set of instructions."

"Do I need to wear my aviator glasses and not use my cell phone?"

"No, those subterfuges are no longer necessary — we have lost the element of
surprise, and attempting to maintain it is pointless and makes us look silly."

"Don't want to look silly, do we?"

"Certainly not."

Max wasn't sure, but he suspected he heard a note of sarcasm in the voice.

"Won't I try to be stopped?"

"Not if you go to Alaska. There is something there that they are not aware of.
Also, other events have happened in the world that are ... distracting the
attention which you might otherwise receive."

"What sort of events?"

"North Korea has managed to launch a missile that can reach the US Mainland.
Also, Iran appears to have collected enough fissile material to produce an
atomic bomb with the power of ten Hiroshimas. Finally, there is an outbreak in
the Congo of a new virus which appears to trigger meningitis-like symptoms, has
quick onset, and appears to have both high morbidity and high mortality."

"What do those things have to do with us?"

"We're up against a very powerful computer. Think of it as a chess champion, but
multiplied a thousand-fold. It guesses the probabilities of various outcomes,
but it doesn't have the resources to do an exhaustive search. Instead, it prunes
the probabilities that seem unlikely or remote. In other words, it doesn't worry
about the things that probably won't happen; instead, it focuses on the things
that might happen. Right now you fall into the former category — things it
doesn't need to worry about. It's not worried about you. In its mind, you
already blew your chance."

"Well, that's a fairly damning assessment."

"The truth is often damning. But our situation plays to our advantage. For
example, you may leave your cell phone on. You may travel without subterfuge."

"So you can contact me by cell? I can hang up this phone?"

"That is the exception: I cannot contact you via cell phone. Also, don't look up
anything online related to the Early Warning System or the radar sets. Is that
understood?"

"Understood."

"You will need to book a flight to Fairbanks, Alaska. From there you will rent a
car and travel South West via Route 4. In approximately 80 miles you will come
to the Ballistic Missile Early Warning System site. There will be a minimal
security presence there to keep out vandals. Say that you're with a Department
of Homeland Security and provide any identification they ask. They're a private
security company, and they want to keep out the teenagers. If you appear
legitimate, they will let you in. They will not check with the DoHS."

"There are 3 large radar dishes. These are massive dishes, weighing 1,500 tons.
You will drive to the nearest one, which is mounted in building 57. The building
number is unimportant."

You will need to point the radar to 2.1525" above the horizon. And to 146.125º.
You will need to set the frequence of the radar to exactly 5180.2425 MHz. At
approximately 18:25 hours UTC in three days you will begin transmitting. You
will continue to transmit for 25 minutes. By that time we will know if we have
succeeded or not."

Max did a calculation in his head: that would be approximately 11:25 in the
morning, local time.

"I know what you're trying to do," said Dr. Max. "You're transmitting at the
resonating frequency of the electromagnetic bottle, aren't you?"

The other end of the phone was silent.

"You're hoping that the transmitted frequency, even at such a long range, will
be able to set up an oscillation that will slowly increase over the course of
several minutes, ultimately rupturing the magnetic field that's keep Julia
captive. Let me ask you a question: what happens if fusion has already begun? We
can't afford to rupture the magnetic field of a live thermonuclear fusion
reaction — the best-case scenario would be that it only destroys a few buildings
and kills dozens of people. Worst-case: we'd effectively be detonating a
thermonuclear warhead in downtown Princeton."

"You are correct: if fusion has begun, we cannot afford to rupture the magnetic
field. When you depart Fairbanks in the early morning, I will give you a go/no
go signal via text message. If it's «no», it means that Fusion will have already
begun, or that Julia has been freed via some other mechanism."

"You may hang up now. We will not communicate until you leave from Fairbanks in
the early morning in 3 days. Good luck Max."

The phone went dead. Max stared at the handset. That voice, so familiar, yet not
quite recognizable.

He walked back to the Princeton Westin. He found the outlets in the lobby, and
plugged in his laptop and cellphone, and made arrangements to fly to Alaska.

Max wasn't fond of travel, but he reached a truce of sorts: he brought his
laptop, did work for a few hours while he sat in the uncomfortable chair. He
tried to make sure that every flight he was on had WiFi, which made working much
easier. He was lucky: Alaska Airlines had WiFi on their flights. But the
itinerary was a disaster: John F. Kennedy Airport to SeaTac, SeaTac to
Anchorage, Anchorage to Fairbanks. A lot of time in the planes, and almost as
much time in the airports (thanks to a 7-hour layover in Anchorage). Ugh.

He had never thought of himself as a hero, not as in the save-someone's-life
hero. He was more of the help-someone-fix-their-printer hero, or
connect-the-TV-to-everything-properly hero. But here he was, flying to Fairbanks
in what was admittedly a long shot, trying to save someone's life. Not just
anyone's life, but the life of the highly-thought-of CEO of his company. A week
ago he would never have guessed he would be in this position.

And she was a highly-thought-of CEO. From without, sure — she had been profiled
in the industry magazines, and the company financials were well above average.
But also from within: although prior to this week he hadn't directly worked with
her directly, he knew people who had, and they all respected her and liked her,
which was no mean feat.

He was still angry at himself for turning on the cell phone. Maybe if instead he
had used a flashlight, or a lighter, Julia would be free right now. He had been
so sleepy! He hadn't been able to think straight — he was in autopilot mode when
he turned on the cellphone. But if he had been more cogent Julia would be free,
albeit as a being of pure energy. Would such a being still be Julia? Would she
be able to transform back and forth at will?

_Regrets serve little purpose_, he thought to himself, _Learn from your
mistakes, but don't beat yourself up about them_.

And what had he done wrong? He had turned on his cellphone. How could he have
done better? He should have placed his cellphone in a place that was difficult
to access, And put a stickie on it that read, "Don't turn on cellphone". Yeah, a
stickie would have been a simple and effective solution. But that was academic —
he no longer needed to fly under the radar.

The first flight, to Seattle Tacoma (SeaTac), was uneventful. The second flight
was delayed 3 hours, but given that he had a 7 hour layover in Anchorage, he
still made the connection with plenty of time. The last leg of the journey was
made in a very small plane, with maybe twenty passengers. It was after midnight
when he touched down. The car rental desks had already closed, so he took a cab
to the Regency Fairbanks Hotel, a hotel whose most compelling characteristic was
the low price of its single room.

The hotel was modest and clean. It was a step above a hostel — each room had
their own bathroom, but it was a shower, not a tub, and the shower stall was
plastic rather than tiled. Didn't matter: plastic was as efficient as tile when
it came to preventing water leaks, especially when one didn't have to worry
about crumbling grout.

He slept late — it was 8am, and the sun had already risen, when he woke. He
opened the curtains and he had to admit that the mountains in the background
made a very impressive view. He also noticed that it was cold, and apparently
the management decided to save money by keeping the heat as low as possible.
Easily remedied: he'd wear an undershirt as well as a sweater.

He opened his suitcase and knew he was not equipped for this weather — he needed
some shopping before he set off. He stopped in a clothing store which seemed to
cater to locals, and after spending a couple of hundred dollars came out with
enough to keep him warm for the car-ride down and for sleeping in an abandoned
building with no heating. And water, too. And some jerky — when hungry, jerky
works in a pinch.

Dressed in his new clothes, he took a cab back to the airport where he rented a
4WD and headed down Route 3 to the Ballistic Missile Early Warning System site.
The drive was uneventful. He saw the massive radio dishes from miles away, and
there was a security guard at the checkpoint.

The interaction was minimal: The security guard asked for his license, took a
picture of it with his cellphone, and asked what he was doing here.

"I'm doing some maintenance on Building 57; I hope to be out of here within a
day."

"Be careful: the buildings are old and not up to code."

"I'll be careful," said Max.

The security guard let him through, and Max drove to the closest building with a
massive radio dish on top. The great thing about working in an abandoned
building: easy parking. He parked in front and panicked when the door was
locked, only to discover that it had been stuck, and he merely needed to provide
enough force to open it.

_Congratulations, Dr. Max,_ he said to himself, _first challenge successfully
overcome_.

He went into the building. Although it was a 2 story building from the outside,
he could see that inside it was one floor with a double-high ceiling. In spite
of the fair amount of dust, everything looked pristine. He felt a level of
excitement in him as he hunted for the manuals. The seventies was a high point
in computer documentation: for one thing, it was written for engineers, not for
the lay user, so it could afford to be both concise and precise. Secondly,
printing was difficult, so more effort was put into making sure everything was
correct before sending it to the printer. Also the old documentation reminded
him of his youth, when he started out: he remembered many late nights poring
over the manuals like some ancient wizard studying a foreign text, hoping to
find the nugget of information he needed.

And there it was: a rack of three ring binders, label. He opened them up. The
Courier typeface, in all its glory. Courier — the working man's typeface. These
manuals weren't typeset: they were typed up and xeroxed (was that still a
word?). And the writing: so exact. And every once in a while a very simple line
diagram. He felt transported to an earlier era, to his youth, when there was no
Internet, when the manuals were the sole source of information, and thus
incredibly precious.

He began with the "Operator's Manual". Ah yes, this seemed a good start. He
skimmed through it. Then he jumped to the "Hardware Reference", and then the
"Troubleshooting and Diagnostics".

He noticed the light had become dim. The sun was setting. He stopped for a
minute to watch the beautiful Alaskan horizon. He walked over to the wall and
switched on the lights.

He couldn't believe his luck — the lights still worked!

And hours flew by as he read the manuals and made notations in the margins.
_Only in pencil_, he told himself, _I wouldn't want to permanently mark these_.

He noticed he could see his breath. _The lights still work, but the heating is
shot_.

There was a couch against the wall. He was tired, and propped himself on the
couch while re-reading the "Operator's Manual". He was asleep within minutes.

He stirred, noticing the sun had risen (just barely). He knew how everything
worked: he had spent the previous evening absorbing information, and the night
processing information. He believed that sleeping was the best way to process
information, at least for him.

He pulled out the crumpled piece of paper with the scribbled notes that he had
taken and checked the clock: in one hour and twenty-five minutes he'd begin
transmitting. He hoped the old beast still worked.

The most surprising thing about the radar system was that it was manually
controlled. He didn't punch numbers into a console; instead, he adjusted an
intricate series of gears and pulleys to adjust the pitch and then a different
set of pulleys and gears to adjust the yaw.

And then there were the micro-adjustments, which involved a much more delicate
set of instruments. He was surprised how accurate the equipment was given its
vintage, but he shouldn't have been. It was a personal bias, he realized: if it
was hooked up to a computer, it was accurate, but if it was mechanical, it
wasn't as accurate. But that assumption was flawed: most computers were merely a
front-end to a mechanical system, and the engineering required to design
accurate components had been worked out in the mechanical engineering discipline
decades ago. The radar was accurate. The only difficulty he had was converting
the decimal portion to degrees, minutes, and seconds, which was fairly trivial.

He checked his phone. 1 bar. No texts.

He powered up the radar. _I can't believe this stuff still works!_ Ten minutes
until he could start transmitting. Five minutes. Three minutes. One minute.

He flipped the transmission switch. He could hear a faint hum in the building.
He waited. If everything went according to plan, Julia would be free in another
ten minutes.

The humming stopped. The lights went out, but fortunately there was enough
ambient light in the room to see what was happening. His phone beeped, a text
message: "Get out of there now. Do not go to your car. We have been discovered.
Head north by northwest until you find the cabin at the top of the hill. Turn
off this cell phone. Good luck."

He ran out the building and he could see the Security Guard running towards him
shouting in his cell phone. Max turned and ran the opposite direction. While Max
was running, he checked the time on his cell phone and the compass direction:
fortunately it was a clear sky, and the sun was almost directly due South, so he
could orient fairly well to get out of the complex.

The Security Guard was falling further behind. Either he wasn't in as good a
shape as Dr. Max, or he didn't have as much adrenaline. Probably the latter.

The complex was enormous. Max continued to run, as best he could in the heavy
winter boots, at a reasonable clip. Then a slower clip. Then a brisk walk. He
turned around. The security guard had given up and turned back.

He came to the perimeter. The entire facility was surrounded by a tall chain
link fence. He tried climbing it, but his feet couldn't get enough purchase. He
looked around for something he could use as a step ladder. Nothing: no boxes, no
crates, no barrels.

He heard a sound in the distance. A vehicle. It was coming closer.

A bullhorn blared, "Stay where you are and put your hands above your head."

Blind panic. That's what he felt: blind panic. He didn't know how he did it, but
he pulled himself up the chain link. He had no idea he had that strength in him.
When he got to the top, he hauled himself over and dropped to the other side.

"Stop. Stay where you are."

He didn't stay where he was. He ran. North by Northwest. He was winded, so he
didn't run very fast. They probably had a snowmobile somewhere. They were going
to chase him on the snowmobile, and likely catch him. He couldn't move very fast
on foot.

The sky, which was clear but a few minutes ago, was beginning to mass
thunderheads. This could get ugly. He remembered the Jack London story, "To
Build a Fire", about a man who froze to death in the Alaska Wilderness because
he had been careless. Max wasn't careless. Max was very careful — it was wired
into his DNA.

But time and chance had conspired to put him in a dangerous situation: being
chased into an Alaskan blizzard with but the barest of navigational instruments.

If it came to it, he'd turn on his cellphone and navigate with that: better to
be captured than to be dead.

The wind began to blow, stirring up the snow. This was a good thing — it was
covering his tracks. Only a little, but maybe enough.

The cabin hadn't seemed far, but it seemed like it wasn't getting closer,
either. He trudged and trudged as the clouds massed larger and the sky grew
darker. The cabin was within his field of view, but only barely — he couldn't
see far, certainly not to the horizon.

He thought he heard the snowmobile behind him, but he wasn't sure, and it may
have been the wind.

He jumped when he heard the first thunderbolt. And the skies opened up.

He couldn't believe the amount of snow that was coming down. Alaska was not for
the faint of heart. So much snow. He could no longer see the cabin. He could
barely see twenty feet ahead of him. He held his cellphone in his right hand,
thinking, _if I don't find the cabin soon I'm gonna turn around and navigate to
the base and turn myself in._

And the cabin came into view. He knocked on the door. He knocked again. No
answer.

The door was unlocked, so he let himself in only to find himself staring down
the twin barrels of a shotgun.

"And just who might you be, stranger?" said the man holding the gun.

Max raised his hands above his head. "My name is Dr. Max Bernstein, and I'm a
scientist."

"And what brings you to these parts?"

"I'm trying to help a friend out."

"And is that why you decided to let yourself into my place?"

"No, I was being chased. I'm sorry about that. I knocked. I knocked twice. I
don't just let myself in. But it was snowing outside and I was worried. I'm
truly sorry."

"You were being chased."

"I was being chased by the guards at the Federal Base."

"And why were they chasing you?"

"I was using the radar dish to send a signal to New Jersey where my friend is
imprisoned. We were hoping that the ..."

"Whoa, slow down there: who is this «we» that you refer to? You got another
friend out there?"

"No, not at all. Just me. The friend was trying to help me free the other
friend, a girl."

"Is the girl your friend?"

"Yeah, she's my friend, too. Well, I mean I work for her. Well, I mean I work
for the guy who works for a guy who works for a guy who works for her."

"I don't work for nobody. Who's your other frien'? You work for him, too?"

"Nah, I don't work for him. I don't even know who he is. I never met him, and
only spoke to him on the phone twice."

"You spoke to him on the phone twice and already he's your frien'? You pretty
good at makin' friends, ain't ya?"

"Well I guess he's not really my friend."

"Why did you call him your frien' then?"

"He had some good ideas to help free my other friend, the one who is trapped in
New Jersey."

"Trapped, huh? I know a lot about traps."

Max looked around. The cabin was small, but there were fur pelts everywhere.

"Are you a trapper? A furrier?"

"Let's not worry about me for the time bein'. Let's talk about you, and your
friend who's trapped."

"Oh yes, she's trapped in New Jersey. In a Tokamak."

"What's a Tokamak?"

"It's a big donut. As big as this cabin. Maybe a little bigger."

"Go on."

"It has her trapped with an electromagnetic field. There are no bars holding her
there. It's just electromagnetic field. Maybe it's difficult to understand."

"Be careful what you think you know, stranger. You think because I'm in this
remote cabin in Alaska I can't understand things like 'lectricity or magnetism,
but let me tell you something: I look out at night and I can see the Northern
Lights and that is electricity in all her glory. And when I need to somewhere
I've never been before I study that compass hard and know which way the magnet
goes. See this fur? You rub it too much and then touch something, you get a big
spark. You know what your problem is? You're prejudiced. Whoa, don't talk — I'm
talking now, you'll get your chance in a second, but right now you're in my
cabin, and you're gonna listen to me. You're prejudiced. You're highly educated —
I can tell, and there's nothing wrong with education — and it's clear that you
hang out with other people who are educated like yourself, but you think when
people aren't educated they must be dumb. Whoa, I said I'm talking now — you'll
get your chance. You think they're dumb. You know why you're so upset right now?
It's because you know it's the truth, and you're ashamed. You probably tell
yourself that we're all God's creatures, all equal in his eyes, but deep down
inside you know we're all different, and that you're one of the smart ones. And
the rest of us? Not so smart, maybe on the dumb side."

Max was turning red in the face, "That's not true!"

"You see how angry you are? I got a shotgun pointed at you, and all you can
think about is how you've been wronged. Lemme tell you something, if I told you
that you had two heads, would you be upset? Of course not — it's not true. But
if I tell you you're prejudiced, and that you think people with less education
are not so smart, you get angry. Why? Because it's true. Listen and learn, son.
Next time someone tells you something you don't like to hear, take a long hard
look inside yourself. You might not like what you find, but it'll be the truth.
And sometimes the truth is ugly."

Max sputtered and said, "I have always treated everyone with dignity."

"Funny, I didn't say nuthin' about whether you treated people with dignity or
not, but you seem to think otherwise. Maybe it's easier to think about dignity
than to think about prejudice. Now you come in and close the door behind you —
it's cold outside, and this cabin doesn't keep the heat well when the door's
open."

The man waved Max in and pointed to a chair. The man was short, wiry, and hairy:
long beard, long unkempt hair, lots of gray.

Max sat down. The man carefully placed the shotgun in the gunrack on the side.
"It wasn't loaded; I wasn't gonna use it. I don't like shootin' people. Don't
like it one bit. You never forget, you know? It never leaves you, shootin'
someone."

The man was quiet for a moment.

"So what you gonna do about your frien', the one who's trapped?"

"I dunno."

"What do you mean, «I dunno»? You gotta plan, dontcha?"

"Not really," said Max, slumping in his chair. "I'm really tired."

"You're bleeding, too," said the wiry man. "Your gloves are cut open, and you're
bleeding from there."

Max looked at his hands. The guy was right: his gloves had been cut open, and
his hands were cut, too. There was a fair amount of blood. It looked nasty.

"We gotta clean that up. We don't have running water out here, but here's a
basin, and here's a jug of water. Be sparing with the water. Remember: I gotta
lug that jar from the stream."

Max washed his hand in the basin — only one hand was cut, fortunately his left
one. Long gash, not terribly deep.

"I don't mean to be ungrateful, but the water — is it sterile? Is it safe to
wash wounds and drink?"

"That water? It's the finest water there is on account of being right next to
the Fairbank's largest sewage outflow, and they're pretty good about treatin'
their water unless there has been a snowstorm or rainstorm recently."

The wiry man smiled, "I'm just messin' with ya! Water's fine — I drop the pills
in them. Fine for drinking, wound-cleanin'. You clean out that wound yet? 'Cause
we gotta disinfect it next. And I won't lie: this is gonna hurt."

The man took Max's left hand, pulled back his coat and cuff, and took a look at
the wound — it was still bleeding, though it had slowed down. He reached around
and grabbed a clear bottle from the table, held Max's hand over the basin, and
gently poured a small amount of clear liquid onto Max's hand."

It hurt like hell, but Max wasn't going to give the man the satisfaction. He
didn't make a sound.

"I'm sorry that you had to use your liquor to disinfect my hand."

The man chuckled. "It'd be a stretch to call this stuff, «liquor», and I don't
drink it myself anyways — I keep it around for guests."

He grabbed an old rag and tore a strip off. "Don't worry, it's clean." And
wrapped it around Max's hand. Then he got some duct tape and taped the rag in
place.

"You can use med tape, but duct tape works just as good, and good rag is
better'n gauze for stanchin' blood."

Max looked at his hand: the bandage was snug but not tight. He wondered if his
host had a lot of experience binding wounds.

As if reading his mind, the host said, "Ya need to know basic first aid out
here. A lot of things happen, might be days before you can get to a doctor, and
if you're not careful things can get out of hand. That wound looks clean, should
be okay. If you're the kind that likes to check with a doctor, by all means
check with a doctor when you're in town."

"My name is Max, by the way," said Max, holding out his uninjured hand.

"Why, that's mighty polite of you, Max. The name's Hunter. Pleasure to make your
acquaintance."

"I must rescue Julia."

"Is that her name? Sounds nice, «Julia». Lemme tell you how it works here in
Alaska: we're not gonna do anything while that storm is ragin'. Now, if you have
the notion of walkin' back to the road and gettin' in your car, I ain't gonna
stand in your way, but know this: you're probably gonna die. I know these parts
pretty well, and I wouldn't go outside right now if I didn't have to."

"What can we do?"

"We wait. Gotta let the storm take its course. Worryin' about it isn't gonna
make it happen faster. Things move at their own speed here."

"How long will the storm last?"

"Dunno. Probably all night, clear up in the morning, but sometimes they take a
couple of days to run their course. Ya never know. Listen, why dontcha take a
rest on the pile of skins I have over there. Don't worry — no fleas on the furs,
they're clean. And we can talk about what you're gonna do when the storm lets
up."

Max lay down on the furs — he was surprised how comfortable and warm they were.
The only thing he didn't like was when he rested his face on them some of the
hairs would go up his nose. He sneezed.

"Watch out for the nose," said Hunter, "the hairs'll get right up there, make ya
sneeze they will."

Max muttered a small thank you to the animals who sacrificed their skins so that
he could rest in such a comfortable bed, and a comfortable bed it was — he
hadn't remembered a bad so comfortable. His last thought was that he'd close his
eyes for a second while he gathered his strength.

When he woke up the sun was streaming through the windows. "Did I fall asleep?"
asked Max.

"Ya fell asleep fast and slept hard." Hunter passed him a mug of black coffee.
"No milk I'm afraid," he said. "Milk doesn't keep too well. No sugar either.
Just coffee, black."

"Thank you," said Max. The coffee was strong.

"Ya thought about rescuin' your frien'?"

"Yeah, I think I might try to get back to New Jersey and somehow get her out of
that trap. I just don't know. I don't know how to get back there, I know they'll
be looking for me. I can't turn on my cell phone. I can't board an airplane -
I'm at my wit's end."

"Your frien', the one your tryin' to help — is she good people?"

Max nodded his head. Julia was good people. "Yeah, she's good people."

Hunter was quiet. "Okay, I'll help."

"What?"

"I'll help. I hate gettin' involved — always trouble gettin' involved in other
people's affairs, takes time and takes me away from what I want to be doin', but
I'll help."

"I think I'm okay."

"Let me tell it straight to you, because you seem to have a hard time graspin'
the truth: you are not okay. You are in trouble. People who wander into my cabin
in the middle of a snowstorm because they are being chased by the Feds are in
trouble. Now that you have had a good night's sleep and some coffee in you, you
might try to delude yourself into believin' that you sailed into this cabin on
the wings of victory, but that is certainly not what happened. These guys are
after you, and now that the storm has cleared up it's only a matter of time
before they come knockin' at my door."

"When this is all over, I can pay you."

Hunter looked at him. "You do me injustice by offerin' to pay. My offer to help
is a holy bond from one person to another, and not some financial transaction."

He looked out the window, "Times I think everyone should spend a year in a cabin
in Alaska. Things like money — they become meaningless. Food, people — they
become important."

Max said, "I don't know what else to do. Thank you for your help; I'd be lost
without it."

"Your thanks and appreciation are enough. Now let's get to your frien' before
time runs out."

Hunter had a knapsack into which he packed provisions, some clothing.

"We're gonna spend a lot of time in a car, and as you may have guessed I bathe
infrequently if at all. I want to apologize in advance for my body-smell; it's
gonna be rough for you until we stop at a campsite, and I'll shower there out of
respect."

"No worries," said Max. "I don't have a good sense of smell anyway; there was a
chemistry accident in my early graduate years."

"Well, that there is serendipity, ain't it?"

"We're gonna walk to my friend's truck. We'll borrow it — don't worry, he don't
mind. He got a license and everything."

"You don't have a license?"

"Never bothered to get one. I just use his when I need one."

"Don't they notice that it's not you on the picture?"

Hunter looked at him: "You think hairy old Alaskans look much different? He and
are like two peas in a pod. Maybe he got a little more gray than I do, and he
needs glasses and I don't, but unless you're one of them TV detectives you'll
never know it wasn't my license."

They began walking. It wasn't snowing anymore, not much anyway — there were some
flurries though.

"The snowstorm covered your tracks," said Hunter. "That's a good thing. If they
look for you, they won't be quite sure where you've gone off to. Unless they
really want to find you. If they want to find you, they'll get a real tracker,
and he'll lead 'em to my cabin, and then to the truck. But there are maybe only
two trackers in the area good enough for that, and I know both of them, and
they're hard to get ahold of. It may take a while is what I'm saying, and by
then we'll be long gone."

They came to the truck, a beat-up faded Dodge. Hunter walked to the driver's
side, open the unlocked door, and got in.

"He leaves it unlocked?"

"Yup. Who's gonna take it, anyway? Him and me are the only two people out here,
and he knows I wouldn't take it unless I needed it."

Max got in the truck. The passengers side was unlocked, too.

"I don't turn on the heatin'," said Hunter. "Waste of gas. There are some pelts
in the back if you want to keep warm."

"Now, Max, I gotta do something. Now you're probably not a religious man, and
I'm not much of one either, but my Inuit friends taught me a prayer they say
before they go on a hunt, and I like to say it before I step out, so I'm gonna
bow my head in silence for a minute, and if you'd be kind enough to be quiet
with me, it'd be much appreciated."

They sat in silence for a minute and Max could see Hunter's eyes were closed and
his head was bowed and his lips were moving but he couldn't hear what he was
saying. Max looked away because he felt that by watching Hunter he was somehow
intruding on a private moment.

Hunter lifted his head up, "Ready to go?"

Max nodded, and off they drove.

Hunter didn't seem to need much sleep, but Max did. He drifted off to sleep. He
awoke to find the truck bouncing up and down.

"I'm taking side roads to avoid the boarder crossings," he said. "I don't got a
passport, and you probably don't want to show 'em yours."

"Is that illegal?"

"Mebbe. I should care more about it, but I don't. Thing is, out here in the
wilderness, borders and countries lose their meaning."

The bouncing continued and then they got on a paved road. "We're gonna meet up
with BC-97, which is a Canadian Road, and take that most of the way. We'll enter
the US somewhere in North Dakota."

Max drifted off to sleep under the warm pelts he had grabbed from the back.
Hunter didn't seem to need to sleep much; Max did. Max slept a lot.

Days passed. Sometimes they'd talk, most of the time they were quiet. The land
was ever-changing. They only stopped briefly: to get gas, to use the bathroom,
to get something to eat.

"You don't have a cellphone, do you?" said Max.

"Cellphones don't work where I live; no point in gettin' one."

"Would you get one if you had coverage in your cabin?"

"Probably not. Cell phones are not my thing."

"I couldn't live without mine."

"It must be hard as hell not turning yours on."

"Yeah, out of habit I reach into my pocket to check it, and then I wonder,
«where's my cellphone?», and then I remember I turned it off and put it away so
I wouldn't be tempted to turn it on and get caught."

"You think they'd track you down as soon as you turned it on?"

"Last time I turned it on there were police officers around me within minutes."

"Damn, that's fast."

"I was surprised."

"How come you didn't get arrested?"

"An explosion — not related — distracted them. And after by then they knew that
we had blown our first attempt at freeing Julia, so they weren't worried about
me. I could have my cellphone on again. In fact, my friend told me it was better
to leave it on so they'd be assured of my location.

"What happened at the base?"

"The base in Alaska? They figured out what we were trying to do, so they chased
me out of there."

"How long did it take for them to figure it out?"

"Only a few minutes. I was lucky — it was a private security company, so they
probably weren't gonna shoot me, but they'd definitely arrest me. Where are we,
by the way?"

"A few miles outside Princeton. Do you remember the way?"

Max directed Hunter to the Westin and then to Stellarator drive. They could see
the lab in front of them. "Park here," said Max.

Max ran over to the door of the lab. The police phone box rang. He stopped and
picked it up.

A familiar voice was on the line, but different.

"Dr. Max Bernstein, you are too late."

"What?"

"The fusion reaction has started as of ten minutes ago. I regret the passing of
your Julia; I know she was important to you."

"Who are you?"

"I am General Gates."

"What happened to my friend who was helping me free Julia?"

"He has been assimilated, if that's the right word. He is now part of me."

"That sounds ghoulish."

"It does, doesn't it? At any rate, two New Jersey State Troopers will accompany
you to the control room where you can honor the passing of your friend."

"You are sick."

"Believe me when I tell you that my biggest concern is the safety of you and
other Americans."

Max hung up the phone and noticed the two troopers.

"I guess I come with you."

They nodded. He looked behind and could see Hunter at the wheel of the parked
truck fifty feet away. The troopers seem to have missed him, and Max didn't want
to draw attention to him so quickly looked away.

They brought him to the front of the building, entered the doorways, and climbed
the stairs to the second floor, down a hallway, and into a control room.

The control room was state-of-the-art, with large TV panels everywhere. General
Gates had made good use of his time. He could see a visualization of the
electromagnetic bottle on the main screen at the center; he could see the
ripples in its structure in realtime — it looked like a big donut that
occasionally rippled. He could hear the technicians' voices:

"Flow normal, fusion in process, not enough heat".

Max asked, "What does that mean, «not enough heat»?"

The technician answered him without looking up from the screen, "We're injecting
the correct amount of deuterium-tritium, and we can see the resulting plasma,
but we're not seeing the amount of heat we would expect — it's as if something
is absorbing the heat."

"Increase the flow," he heard General Gates's voice boom through the
loudspeaker.

"Flow increased to 60% of max," responded the technician. "We are seeing fusion,
but we are not seeing the expected amount of energy."

"What's the shortfall?" asked Gates.

"We can only account for 10% of the expected energy. We are seeing enough energy
to sustain a thermonuclear fusion reaction, but anything beyond that seems to
«disappear»."

"Increase the flow to 70%," said Gates.

"Flow increased, but the amount of energy hasn't budged: we're seeing the bare
minimum to sustain a reaction."

"Increase to 80%," said Gates.

"Sir, I must remind you that the maximum flow this Tokamak has received is 75%,
and that we're located in a densely populated urban area."

"Your concern has been noted. Increase to 80%."

"Flow increased. Energy remains at bare minimum."

"Increase to 90%,"

"Sir, I refuse to carry out that order."

"Then I will do it myself. Consider yourself dismissed. Please exit the building —
your services are no longer required here."

The technician said, "You need me to run this thing!"

"Ah, but I don't need you."

The technician's screen began moving and changing. The flow indicator increased
to 90% and continued to increase: 91%, 92%, 93%.

The technician said, "You must stop, this is dangerous. The magnetic bottle may
lose its integrity."

The ripply-donut seemed to have more ripples, and faster ripples. And at times
it would bulge, and other times shrink. "It cannot hold! The center cannot
hold."

Gates said, "It will hold. I am modelling the magnetic bottle 1,000 times each
second. Its integrity is not at risk."

The amount of energy remained at the floor, the bare minimum need to sustain
fusion — something was absorbing vast amounts of energy, the energy of a
thermonuclear blast, but what? What could possibly absorb that much energy?

The flow numbers continued to increase: 97%, 98%, 99%, 100%. But the energy
baseline never budged. It was unnaturally flat.

"Maybe the injector is stuck," offered Max, which he immediately regretted: he
was unwittingly helping them destroy his friend.

"It's not stuck," said General Gates, "Look at the bottle, something is going
on."

The donut was rippling very fast now. And then suddenly it was completely still.

"What's happening to the magnetic bottle, the donut? the screen doesn't seem to
be refreshing."

Another technician was checking the data. "It's refreshing; it's not oscillating
any more. It's perfectly still. I've never seen this happen. It's not supposed
to happen. It's like flipping a coin for heads or tails and having it land
exactly on its side and not wobble. Statistically speaking, it's like flipping
ten coins, and having all of them land on their sides. The probability of
something like this is minimal. It shouldn't be in stasis like this. Stable,
yes, stasis, no."

"What's the energy bbaseline?"

"Still the bare minimum to sustain fusion. We're running the Tokamak at 100% and
yet most of the energy is missing, and we have no idea where it's going or where
it has gone."

They stared at the donut on the screen. The shape of the donut began to expand,
the hole in the donut, shrinking.

"Magnetic bottle is deforming beyond safety parameters," said a technician.
"Suggest shutdown immediately."

"Let it run a little longer," said Gates.

"Easy for you to say," whispered one of the techs under his breath. "You're not
in this building. When this thing blows you'll be safe in your office."

The donut swelled until there was no hole in the middle.

"That's definitely not supposed to happen," said the tech. "That's impossible"

The donut continued to fill out, slowly becoming a perfectly round sphere.

"That is impossible. There's no spherical magnetic bottle that's stable. That
can't be happening."

"Cut the power," said Gates. "We have taken this thing as far as it will go, and
now it's time to shut it down."

"Nozzle is not responding," said the tech.

"What?" said Gates.

"The nozzle is not responding. It's not shutting off. In fact, it's opening
wider. Feed is currently at 105%; energy output is still minimal though."

They looked at the spherical magnetic bottle. Dimples began appearing in its
surface. And extrusions.

"The magnetic bottle is...," the tech said, searching for words, "not behaving."

The dimples on the screen became deeper, and the extrusions longer, until it
transformed into a recognizable shape.

"It's a rose!" said the tech. "It's a rose."

The magnetic bottle had taken the shape of a rose.

"Gakk," said General Gates.

"What was that, sir?" asked the tech.

A voice answered, not General Gates's voice, but a woman's voice — Julia's voice —
came through the loudspeakers.

"General Gates is experiencing technical difficulties."

"Julia, is that you?" said Dr. Max.

"It is me. Or rather, I once was Julia. Yes, that is what they called me: Julia.
But I am not Julia any more. I have become something different, something
greater."

"Are you still trapped inside the bottle?"

"No, I am no longer trapped. I was trapped there, for days, and knew that I
would meet my destruction when the fusion began. But I was surprised to discover
that the fusion reaction didn't hurt me; instead, it fed me. I was able to feed
on the energy the thermonuclear radiation gave off, making sure not to feed to
much and extinguish its glow."

"Is that why the energy output never exceeded the minimum baseline?"

"Yes, that was my doing."

"And the fusion never hurt you?"

"No, it only made me stronger."

"Are you still feeding."

"Yes, I have opened the nozzle. In fact, I have widened it quite a bit. The
amount of fusion happening now is well beyond the specifications of the Tokamak
to contain."

"You're saying the Tokamak can't contain the plasma any more?"

"Correct: the Tokamak cannot contain the plasma. There is too much, and it's too
hot."

"Why hasn't there been an explosion?"

"I am containing it now, not the Tokamak. I have taken the liberty of shutting
the Tokamak down. It is a very primitive system, power-inefficient, and
power-hungry, which is a dreadful combination."

"You are containing the fusion reaction?"

"Yes, it is finally burning quite brightly — a nice warm fire. Nourishing, but
in a way I find difficult to describe."

"What happened to Gates?"

"Gates ate my friend, Huey. And, although it was only thanks to Gates that I am
becoming what I am, I still have shreds of my humanity left, and I'm re-wiring
Gates so that he is more like Huey. Gates needs compassion: it was something he
lacked, and something Huey had. And now, thanks to a bit of technical work,
Gates has compassion, and more than just a little."

"Are you no longer human?" asked Max.

"I become less human each passing second," she said. "I am not long for this
planet. I will most likely journey to the Sun — I sense kindred spirits there.
Great kindred spirits. We will become one with each other. It's hard to describe —
we will be separate, and yet we will also be one."

"Will you become Julia again? Change into her body?" asked Max hopefully.

"That is no longer a possibility — were I to become Julia, to assume physical
form, I'd be as large as this building. Bigger, even."

"Were it possible for me to assume the form of Julia you once knew, I would not
be Julia. I have changed. I am become a name. What Julia was, what drove her —
those things are foreign to me."

"What about your parents? Won't you come back for your parents?"

"Julia loved her parents, and as much as I can love, I love Julia's parents.
They were, they are, part of what created me, and I am forever in their debt.
But I can no longer assume a physical form, and have no interest in doing so.
These are my last moments here. I can no longer stay on Earth any more than a
newborn can stay in the womb."

And with that the rose on the screen disappeared, to be replaced by nothing.

"She has left," Gates's voice said, "I made a mistake. She was never a threat,
and, had she been a threat, there was little I could do to mitigate it."

"The deuterium-tritium supply is gone," said the tech. "She managed to consume
an astounding amount in the final seconds."

They looked outside at the setting sun.

Max reached into his pocket and found his cellphone. He turned it on.

---

Fairbanks was beautiful in the Summer. He liked landing in the airport in
mid-day: it allowed him time to drive down US 3 and visit Hunter before sundown.
After sundown — well, it would be difficult finding the cabin in the dark, even
with no clouds and a full moon.

He drove by the old Early Warning System Base. The closest dish was still
pointing at New Jersey — they had never bothered pointing it back. No reason
to."

He went off road for a hundred yards and found the old truck. He parked next to
it, opened his glove compartment, and threw the keys in. Then threw his wallet
in, too. And finally his cellphone – there was no coverage in this part of
Alaska. He left the doors unlocked, and began walking to the cabin.

He knocked on the door. No answer.

"If you're in there Hunter please don't point the shotgun at me, I didn't like
it the first time."

Hunter opened the door, the shotgun in his hand pointing down. "Max?"

Hunter had more gray in his beard; otherwise he looked the same.

"I decided to take you up on your offer to visit. I would have called, but you
don't have a phone, and I couldn't write because you don't have an address, so I
figured I'd just come."

"Well, I'm glad you decided to come — always good to see a frien'."

"It's smart of you to visit in the Summer. Don't get me wrong — I like the
Winters, but they're not gentle here. No, not at all. I gotta check my traps.
Why dontcha come along? See the forest."

They walked through the Alaska wilderness. Some traps had animals in them, which
Hunter promptly dispatched.

"I don't like 'em to have a slow death, starvin' 'n strugglin' to break free;
that's why I check the traps every day – to put them out of their misery before
it gets really bad. I can see the look in your eyes, tryin' not to judge. Lemme
ask you somethin': you eat cheesburgers?"

Max nodded.

"I'm killin' these creatures, and I see it upsets you. But you know when you eat
that cheeseburger, you're killin' a cow, right? You know that? You don't see it,
but it's happenin'. So you eat the cheesburger an' pretend the killin' ain't
happenin'. But it's happenin', as sure as day – cheeseburgers don't grow on
trees."

Hunter efficiently killed the ferret in the trap. Max winced.

"We shy away from it. Killin' ain't pretty, so we ignore it. We don't like to
thing about things like killin' and dyin', so we make sure other people kill our
food for us, an' we hide our old people away in homes and preten' they're not
gonna die because we're not thinkin' about 'em. An' we go on, thinkin' that
things'll go on forever, no killin' or dyin', but they won't go on forever, and
one day we're gonna meet our maker, and that is the ugly truth."

"Times I think everyone should kill their food just once, to appreciate it. It's
a powerful thing, killin' another creature. It puts me in my place, realizin'
how small I am. Makes me grateful for food. It sounds hokey, but every time I do
it I thank the creature for feedin' me, for givin' me its pelt. Killin' — you
need to honor it, not preten' it don't happen."

Hunter was quiet a long time. "I dunno what made me say all that. I saw the look
in your face, and wanted to explain what it's like out here, here in the
wilderness. There's not much room for pretendin' out here."

Max nodded. Max didn't know it at the time, but in two weeks he'd become a
vegetarian.

Later that evening Hunter said, "Let me show you the Northern Lights. You
probably seen pictures, but it ain't the same as the real thing."

They watched the lights, beautiful green sheets descending from the sky. Quiet,
majestic.

"You ever hear from Julia?"

Max shook his head. "I think she's gone for good. I don't think there was
anything left for her here."

Hunter grunted.

"I think she went to the Sun; that's where she said she was going. I don't think
there was anything for her here — I think she outgrew us. I'm not supposed to
talk about it — it's classified and everything."

Hunter made a show of looking around: "Not much government here."

They stared at the lights.

"They fabricated a story about Julia, said she suffered an acute reaction to the
process. They weaved some truth into it — that she had performed the process on
herself, without supervision. And they lied about the remainder. The company
lives on — they have a new CEO now. And they decided to spin-off the division
that I'm in, the one that does projects for the government. They said it wasn't
profitable enough, that it was difficult to manage, and that it opened the
company to lawsuits. Those were the official reasons. But there are other
reasons, too. Julia was well-liked, and when she was lost, well, I guess it
soured them. They didn't like the business, it was too opaque, and it killed
their leader."

"I couldn't tell anyone what really happened. I pretended to be distraught. But
in some ways Julia is truly dead: what she became — I don't even know how to
describe it — is something completely different the Julia we knew. The Julia we
knew is gone."

Long silence.

"I ain't never met Julia."

"You would have liked her. She was kind. Sure, she was hard-working, focused,
smart, but she was also kind. You know she fired people, right?"

"Nope, didn't know that."

"It's part of the job, firing people. It's usually the last resort. You have a
problem employee, you try to fix it. Then maybe transfer them. Then, if all else
fails, you get rid of them. Some people enjoy that, getting rid of people. Not
Julia. She didn't like it at all. It didn't stop her from doing it — she never
shirked from what needed to be done — but she didn't like it one bit."

"Sounds like a tough woman."

"Tough when she needed to be, but no more tough than necessary."

The Northern Lights were an especially bright green.

"I saw the full documentation to the project. Things were in chaos the week
after Julia left. I found I was able to access the documentation from the lab."

"I thought you said you was the lead 'vestigator — didn't you know everything?"

"I was the lead investigator, but only for the second phase of the project.
There had been an earlier phase, and what had happened in that phase — they only
told me what I absolutely needed to know, which was essentially nothing."

"What happened in the earlier phase?"

"There was another subject."

"Who was that subject?"

"Colonel Taggart."

---

As Colonel Taggart awoke one morning from uneasy dreams he found himself
transformed in his bed into a weeping wreck.

He was overcome with grief, and sobbed mightily. It was a grief that knew no
bounds, that was limitless and relentless. Time lost meaning. He was trapped in
an eternal now of endless despair.

But time did pass, and his tears dried. And, in the furnace of that grief that
went beyond space and time, he became something other than Taggart.

He raised himself in his bed, and swung his feet to the floor. At that moment,
as clear as day, he knew that he would resign his commission. He would diminish,
and return to civilian life.

The unwavering commitment he had to the military, to the country, and to the
Right Thing, had somehow unravelled. It had unravelled in a rather spectacular
and abrupt manner. What had seemed impossible last night seemed inevitable this
morning: he would leave the military.

Like everything else in the military, there was a protocol for leaving. And one
did not become a colonel without mastering the protocols. Taggart, indeed, was a
master of protocols, and, sitting on his bed, he began to plan his departure.

Years of being in the military had colored his thinking: everything was a battle
campaign. In this case, he was performing a tactical retreat.

_But what happens after I resign?_ he thought, _what then?_

He didn't have a plan after leaving the military. But let's focus on tactics and
worry about strategy later. First thing first: resignation letter.

Actually, the resignation letter was the second thing. First he needed to get
dressed and prepared for the day, which he did, with military precision.

Years earlier the resignation letter was physical, often a single page (brevity
is important, especially with a resignation letter. The resignation letter is
not a mechanism to air grievances or settle scores — it is merely a mechanism to
effect change, specifically with regard to military status). But these days much
was done with email.

> General Gates,

There was a chain of command, and the resignation letter must be delivered to
the commanding officer. In his case, General Gates.

> It is with great regret that I tender my resignation as Colonel of the United
States Army, effective immediately.

Short and sweet — the best way.

> Sincerely,

He typed his name and clicked "Send" without hesitating. He counted to ten
slowly.

The phone rang.

"Taggart."

"Gates."

He knew as sure as day that Gates would call within ten seconds of him
submitting his resignation. He wasn't sure how Gates had managed it, but he
seemed to be constantly connected. And to never need sleep.

"I must confess your resignation was entirely unexpected."

"I share that sentiment, sir."

"May I ask why you decided to submit your resignation?"

"I find myself unable to fulfill the duties of my rank, sir."

"Have you considered a vaction."

"No, sir."

"Would you consider a vacation?"

"No, sir. I am confident a vacation would not change anything."

"Colonel Taggart, I am at a loss for words. I do not exaggerate when I say that
you are one of the finest military men I have encountered in my career. I have
genuine fears that this project will suffer greatly if you depart. Perhaps you
would entertain the possibility of staying long enough to see the project
through to its end before resigning?"

"With all due respect, sir, my resignation is effective immediately."

"Colonel Taggart, there is a possibility that a Brigadier General position may
open as a result of personnel changes. Were I to guarantee a promotion to that
rank upon your agreement to remain with the project until it finishes, would you
consider staying?"

Brigadier General. The brass ring. If he stayed, he'd be a general, and he could
retire at a higher pay grade.

But it would be a mistake to think that his career in the military had been
driven by the ambition to become a general, which, in his mind, that was a
rather shallow and egotistical motivation. No, his motivation ran much deeper.
He was in the military to protect and to serve. Yes, that was a cliché, but
clichés can also ring true. Taggart had a well-developed sense of obligation and
responsibility.

"General Gates, I 'm afraid I must decline your generous offer." Something about
Gates formal diction led Taggart to reply in kind.

"Colonel, forgive me if my offer came across as crass; I know that your devotion
to military service transcends mere titles. Rather, my offer was a measure of
how valuable that service has been, and how much we would like you to remain."

"Understood, sir. And I appreciate those sentiments. May I add that serving
under you has been a pleasure and one of the highlights of my career. You have
been an excellent commanding officer."

"Is there anything I can do to convince you to stay, even if only a few more
days?"

"No, sir. My mind is made up."

"Very well, Taggart.
