{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 She sat in coach. She travelled mostly in coach, sometimes in business class, but mostly in coach. She wanted to set the example for her company. Frugal. She had seen some employees at other companies go overboard, spending money recklessly, \'93sucking on the corporate teat,\'94 was how her mentor had described it.\
She didn\'92t begrudge her people flying business, but never first class, not even on the long Asia flights. If they used their points to upgrade, well that was their prerogative, but the company would only pay for business class.\
It was curious: Sales and Marketing tended to spend proportionally much larger amounts on flights, meals, entertainment, conferences, than the engineers and scientists, who spent at times unbelievably little. But the scientists and engineers would kill you on the capital expenditures. Engineering was expensive. Salaries were much of it, but capital expenditures was a close second.\
She thought of the head of Global Sales. He always travelled business class. He was a large man, and business class made a big difference.\
She smiled. She couldn\'92t help but like John. Heck, that\'92s one of the reasons he was so effective in Sales. He could say the most outrageous things and, with a wink and a smile, get away with it.\
She frequently travelled with John when they called on their enterprise customers. Sometimes she\'92d fly in business class with John, but other times she sat back in coach.\
He didn\'92t like that, when she sat back in coach. He didn\'92t like that, but not enough to change his ticket, so she used that time to work on other things, sometimes personnel issues, sometimes financial.\
He was a warm person, and she was reserved. He was drawn to that, the reservation. She was never quite within his grasp, and it made him try harder to make her like him.\
It wasn\'92t sexual, their relationship, not sexual at all. There was one time, too late, she had been tired, and besides nothing had happened. Nothing at all.\
Their relationship wasn\'92t sexual, but he yearned for something from her. Was it the unconditional love of a mother? Was it acknowledgement of his talent?\
She wasn\'92t stingy with her praise, but she wasn\'92t over-the-top, either. Early in her career she tended to be over-the-top, but it merely debased the currency of her praise, and she adjusted accordingly.\
She made it clear that he was valued, not only in those 
\i pro forma
\i0  yearly performance appraisals, but more importantly in the special way when you come to someone with a problem. Earlier last week, for example, she walked into his office and said, \'93John, we\'92re having trouble in Support with the EMC account \'97 the Support organization is fixing some of it on their end, but I\'92m wondering if you could smooth any waves on the executive side before it gets out of hand?\'94\
Asking people for help was important \'97 it helped made them feel valued. But it had to be something you couldn\'92t do yourself \'97 \'93Could you please get me a cup of coffee?\'94 did not engender feelings of being appreciated.\
And there was the mom-thing. For better or worse, when younger men reported to you, they projected feelings about their mother onto you. It was a tricky dance: on one hand, in a strange way, they loved you, they trusted you. On another hand, a professional relationship was not a mother-son relationship \'97 those are different beasts. And you needed your guard up.\

\i She remembered one particularly difficult employee. Only after he had left the company did she discover that he had been estranged from his mother for the last ten years. Sigh. There was a reason to keep one\'92s private and professional lives separate, but some people could not but help drag their emotional baggage into work, and this employee had been one of them.\
She remembered being in her mentor\'92s office, \'93I\'92m having a problem with an employee.\'94\
He said, \'93Close the door.\'94\
After the door was closed, he said, \'93What\'92s going on Julia?\'94\
\'93He\'92s disruptive at the office. He\'92s inappropriate with customers, and,\'94 she paused, and then spoke quickly, \'93He undermines my authority. He interrupts me constantly at meetings. And other ways, too.\'94\
\'93Other ways?\'94\
\'93Two of my other reps came to me and said that he said that the only reason I got the job was because...\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94\
\'93because you and I were having an affair,\'94 she blurted out.\
Her mentor twitched, \'93That\'92s what they\'92re saying?\'94\
\'93That\'92s what HE is saying.\'94\
They both sat in silence. There never had been anything sexual between them. She was originally drawn to him because of his hands \'97 his hands reminded her of her father\'92s hands: strong but not too rough. And other things about him reminded her of her father: he was gentle but also firm. She had reported to him early in her career, and they clicked right away, and he took her under his wing. She couldn\'92t explain it, but somehow she trusted him from day one. And he trusted her.\
He spoke up, \'93How is he as a sales rep?\'94\
\'93He\'92s mediocre, but he\'92s not incompetent.\'94\
\'93Then it\'92s a behavior issue not a performance issue. What else has he done?\'94\
\'93He once set me up for an ambush.\'94\
\'93How so?\'94\
\'93He arranged a meeting between him, me, and his second biggest client. One of the topics he asked me to bring up was to migrate the client from the old B-Style contract to the new C-style contract. When I brought it up, the client was so angry that he walked out of the meeting. I found out later that he knew the client was adamantly opposed to changing the contract, but he had never told me. He set me up.\'94\
\'93You\'92ve spoken with HR?\'94\
\'93Yup.\'94\
\'93Did you write him up?\'94\
\'93He\'92s been given a written warning and a final warning.\'94\
\'93Good, that was my next question. So he knows what he needs to do to keep his job? And he still undermines you?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\'93Is he in a group we need to be careful about? Is he over 40, black, or gay?\'94\
\'93No.\'94\
\'93Then fire him. Fire him today \'97 get it over with quickly. The sooner the better.\'94\
He added, \'93There\'92s something you should know about firing people \'97 it never feels good afterwards. I\'92m always haunted by doubt \'97 maybe there\'92s something I could have done to salvage the situation. Firing someone is always the last resort, only to be used when all other options have been exhausted. In this case, I think firing is the right choice.\'94\
They sat in silence a little longer.\
\'93Anything else?\'94 he asked.\
She shook her head. \'93Thanks,\'94 she said.\
He nodded.
\i0 \
}