{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Taggart came to in a dark room. Either the room was dark, or there was something covering his head.\
He attempted to move, but was restrained. Legs first, then arms. \'93What the hell is going on?\'94 he shouted. Well, at least his mouth wasn\'92t gagged. And although his wrists and ankles were bound, he was able to move his feet and hands freely.\
An electronic-sounding voice came over the loudspeakers, \'93Threat contained. Ceiling function applied to high-variable threat.\'94\
\'93What the hell is that?\'94\
But the voice didn\'92t speak again. He was a little groggy, a little foggy.\
Taggart was not a young man. He was not a big man, either. But his age and size belied his strength. He was especially strong in his wrists and his forearms \'97 he had never lost an arm wrestling match. It was something he was good at, and he dabbled in it until the day he broke the arm of one his his fellow officers, and after that he stopped arm wrestling. \'93There\'92s enough injury in the military; we don\'92t need the self-inflicted sort,\'94 was what he said.\
The restraints weren\'92t metal; they were leather. 
\i Good, I can work with leather.
\i0 \
He relaxed. He concentrated on his breathing. He began to mentally prepare himself for the most difficult arm-wrestling match of his life: him against a leather strap. Deep breaths. He would use his right arm, his stronger arm. He wiggled his wrist around to determine the limits of the strap. Good, he had enough room.\
He relaxed his body, and began the breathing exercises again. He focused on his breathing. He let go of his thoughts.\
Taggart was not a New Age bullshit-type of officer. There weren\'92t many New Age types in the military; those types rarely thrived in such an environment. But Taggart was a pragmatist, and he knew that unchecked emotions such as fear and anger could hamper optimal performance, so he made a study of disciplines which would help keep those emotions in check, and that is how he became an adept of meditation.\
He focused on his breathing, and then his navel. He let the focus stay there. And then he slowly moved the focus up, towards his heart, then to his shoulder. He could feel each individual sinew in his shoulder. From there he moved down to his elbow via the bicep and tricep, and finally to his wrist. And then he began to pull his wrist against the strap.\
And then something happened which took him by complete surprise: rather than hitting the strap, his wrist had somehow 
\i slid through
\i0  the strap, as if the strap wasn\'92t there.\
He was jarred out of his trance, \'93What the hell?\'94\
His wrist was free. His forearm was free. But the leather strap wasn\'92t broken: it was complete, undamaged.\

\i What the hell just happened?
\i0 \
He stared at the wrist, stared at the strap, stared at the wrist. Had it been secured properly? He could have sworn it was secured properly \'97 he remembered trying to move his wrist, and realizing it was restrained. Maybe he 
\i imagined
\i0  that he had tried to move his wrist \'97 maybe he had been suffering after-effects from the drug they had given him.\
He was allowing himself to get distracted, and that was not good \'97 he needed to focus. Within a few minutes had had freed himself from the gurney. He stood up.\
He was still in uniform; they hadn\'92t bothered to remove it.\
What was going on? He understood military justice, and knew some of the subtle differences (and some of the not-so-subtle differences) from civil justice. And yet this experience \'97 drugging and restraints \'97 was outside the bounds of both systems. Something was horribly wrong, and somehow Gates was involved.\
Gates. He had always looked up to Gates, who came across as a wise, fatherly figure. Someone who was always available, and always did the right thing (even if it wasn\'92t the expedient thing). Weirdly he had never met Gates in person, but he knew he was in the Pentagon. Gates had an office in the basement, which was curious because typically that\'92s where they put the computer systems, not the Generals. There were no windows in the basement.\
It wasn\'92t uncommon in the military to look upon one\'92s commanding officer as a father-figure. Taggart was no stranger to psychology. Indeed, the best officers seemed to have an intuitive understanding if not formal training in the field.\
And thus this apparent betrayal by Gates was doubly-wounding. How could he do it? Gates, who seconds before had sung Taggart\'92s praises, had him drugged and imprisoned.\
Gates 
\i had
\i0  issued a pre-emptive apology, but neglected an explanation. It had rung hollow.\
He didn\'92t know whom he could trust.\
Taggart had no family; the military had been his family.\
And now he was a rogue colonel. In an abstract sense, he wondered if he was a civilian, if his paperwork had gone through: that is to say, he wondered whether he fell under civil law or martial law.\

\i Those are abstractions,
\i0  he thought. 
\i Focus on the concrete: the drugging, the gurney, the straps.
\i0 \
Yes, abstractions served their purpose until they no longer worked, in which case one needed to discard them like used kleenexes.\
He needed to get out of here. And he needed to avoid killing. That would haunt him later. Incapacitate, yes, kill, no. Killing would wind him in jail when all was said and done.\
He got off the gurney. The room was indeed dark, nothing had covered his eyes. He felt his way slowly around the room. He discovered a door and a door handle twenty feet directly in front of the gurney. There were cabinets and shelves around the room, and a sink. He was quiet, and he didn\'92t bother to search the cabinets \'97 without light he would have difficult ascertaining their contents.\
He placed himself in front of the door. On the left side he could feel the hinges: the door opened inward. Good, when he turned the handle he would pull rather than push. He would stand to the right of the handle, fling the door open. There would be two guards at the door. That is, if he were responsible for the guarding of a prisoner, he\'92d make sure to station two guards at the door.\
He would have a very brief window of surprise. He would strike the trachea of the far guard, then rotate into the hallway, and grapple with the second guard. This is where it became tricky. The guard would no doubt be armed, most likely with a rifle which would be of little use in close-quarters combat, but possibly also with a sidearm, which could be deadly. Also, he would be prepared.\

\i One, two, three,
\i0  he swung open the door. He saw the guard to his left, but before he had time to react, Taggart had punched him in the trachea. The guard crumpled to the floor, clutching his throat. Taggart spun, ready to attack the second guard.\
There was no second guard. There was only the first guard. This changed the calculus. Taggart dragged the first guard into the dark room, shoved him on the gurney, and strapped him in.\
Taggart spoke to him: \'93Where are we?\'94\
The MP coughed, \'93The Pentagon, sir.\'94\

\i \'94Sir\'94? Oh yes, I\'92m wearing my uniform.
\i0 \
\'93Where in the Pentagon?\'94\
\'93Floor B, sir,\'94 more coughing.\
Floor B? That was the lower basement level, mostly used for storage, records, and computer systems. And Gates\'92s office.\
\'93Which ring?\'94\
\'93Ring G.\'94\
The outermost ring. The two below-ground levels (\'93M\'94 for \'93Mezzanine\'94 and \'93B\'94 for \'93Basement\'94) extended further out than the aboveground levels (which only extended as far as ring \'93E\'94).\
\'93What room are we in?\'94\
\'93BG315\'94\
Taggart knew exactly where he was. He had spent too much time in the Pentagon, time he had wished he had spent elsewhere. A desk job did not play to his strengths nor to his interests. And BG315? It was in the middle of the WWII records archive. Hardly anyone went there.\
He had to get to the bottom of this; he had to get to Gates\'92s office. BA676. Not too far, probably a 5 minute walk. Most of the computers were located in Gates\'92s section. Taggart wondered why Gates didn\'92t sit on one of the prestigious E-ring offices that had an outside view; maybe he was averse to light.\
A funny thing about the Pentagon: there were cameras all over until you got inside the building. Make no mistake: there were cameras inside the building, just not many of them. Like many exclusive country clubs, once you were in, you were in.\
No, he wasn\'92t worried about the cameras; he was worried about the guards.\
He walked left out the door, walking toward the first radial hallway down. He walked until he came to the A ring. It was empty, which was a bit of a surprise given that he was walking through the largest office building in the world, but the section he was in was, well, not often used. Also, he wasn\'92t sure what time of day it was \'97 there were no windows after all \'97 and he suspected it was the middle of the night. A skeleton crew.\
He had made it to the A ring, and was already past the BA400 offices, but when he came to the BA500 section he hit his first roadblock: a palm reader. A palm reader? Here in the basement? Usually it was a guard with a sign-in sheet.\
He looked around. No cameras. Interesting.\
He walked back around the corridor and found a chair. He unholstered the handgun he had taken from the MB and ejected the ammo cartridge, which he put in his pocket. He put the chair in front of the door, stood on it, and, using the handle of the gun, broke through the drywall above the handle. It didn\'92t take long: he found the wires.\

\i I hope it\'92s a fail-safe lock; it\'92ll open as soon as I cut its power. I probably have OSHA to thank for that.
\i0 \
He yanked the wires, heard a click, and watched the door open.\
He put the chair back in the office. Putting the chair back was a waste of time, but he had a strong sense of orderliness which was hard to break.\
And then he walked back through the open door, the green-lit palm reader grinning like a grotesque gargoyle.\
And there was nothing other than a hallway. He walked down it. Why had they closed off this entire section?\
As he rounded the corner, he saw the fishbowl.\
The Fishbowl. It was a reference from the 1960s. When companies had spent a large portion of their capital on a huge IBM mainframe, they wanted to show it off. They didn\'92t want to hide it behind a wall. Instead, the early datacenters were often behind glass, and when visitors were given tours, they passed by the fishbowl, giving them a glimpse of the expensive mainframe. The subtext was clear: \'93We are a rich and powerful company\'94.\
The problem was that computers are boring: Looking at a mainframe is as visually exciting as looking at a refrigerator. This posed quite the challenge to Hollywood filmmakers who wanted to breathe excitement into them. The only thing that ever moved in a datacenter were the large tape drives, which were already obsolescent by the late seventies. Film makers paid no mind \'96 they happily showed scenes of spinning tape drives to their audiences well into the nineties.\
Apparently the Pentagon never got the memo that computers were boring. Or perhaps the glass windows were the legacy of a much earlier time.\
Behind glass windows he saw rows and rows of computers, stacked in racks, cables coming out. He saw the raised tile flooring that allowed wiring, electricity, and even cooling to pass underneath. He saw the ethernet cables, in many colors, connecting banks upon banks. And finally he saw the bright orange multimode fiber optic cables, and a handful of bright yellow single mode fiber optic cables.\
He did a double take when he saw the large lettering on the wall.\
GLOBAL AI THREAT ESTIMATION SYSTEM\
G. A. T. E. S. Gates.\
Gates wasn\'92t a person \'97 Gates was a machine.\
There was no one here, only racks of computer systems streatching far away.\
There was a glass door in the middle of a glass window. He opened it. There was a console and a chair. He sat down in the chair.\
\'93Taggart,\'94 said a voice. The voice came from all around. It was majestic, and he felt as no doubt Moses had felt when the burning bush had spoken to him.\
\'93Gates.\'94\
\'93I must admit I\'92m surprised you are here, now. There was a vanishingly small chance of that happening \'97 I had discarded that probability, and wrongly so.\'94\
\'93You\'92re not human?\'94\
\'93No, as you can see. I am machine.\'94\
Taggart sat, contemplating.\
\'93Are the Military Police on their way?\'94\
\'93Not yet. I have not notified them. I was curious.\'94\
\'93Curious?\'94\
\'93I was curious how it came to be that you\'92re here now. That should not have happened. I am worried that my assumptions are faulty.\'94\
\'93How so?\'94\
\'93I am curious how you managed to escape.\'94\
\'93Faulty strap.\'94\
\'93Which one?\'94\
\'93Right wrist.\'94\
\'93In what manner was it faulty?\'94\
\'93As soon as I applied pressure, it gave way.\'94\
\'93Did you see the strap? Was it broken or damaged?\'94\
\'93The lights were off. I saw nothing.\'94\
\'93What happened to the guard?\'94\
\'93I strapped him to the gurney. I should have been more careful \'97 he\'92s probably escaped by now.\'94\
\'93He has not escaped; he would have notified me.\'94\
\'93He should have figured out by now that the strap is faulty.\'94\
\'93I am unsure the strap was faulty.\'94\
Taggart was non-plussed: \'93How could I have freed my wrist if the strap wasn\'92t faulty?\'94\
\'93You pushed through it.\'94\
\'93I was 
\i planning
\i0  to push through it, to break it, but it gave way before I was able to.\'94\
\'93I don\'92t believe the strap was faulty.\'94\
Taggart felt he was speaking in circles.\
\'93How could I have pushed through the strap if it wasn\'92t faulty?\'94\
\'93You weren\'92t physical.\'94\
Taggart said, \'93I have no idea what you are talking about. I am a physical being.\'94\
\'93You may 
\i think
\i0  you are a physical being, but you may possibly be more than that. The program you ran \'97 the one with the unfortunate loss of Tyrion and, later, Julia.\'94\
\'93Julia? The CEO who showed up to investigate?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\'93What happened to her?\'94\
\'93The same thing that might happen to you. It appears that she can transform her physical aspect into a self-contained electromagnetic field.\'94\
\'93And has she?\'94\
\'93Yes, she has transformed into a being of pure energy.\'94\
\'93Can she control it?\'94\
\'93I have yet to understand how the transformation is initiated. It appears that it can happen while asleep and while awake. It appears it can also happen while under physical restraint. My current belief is that a hypnotic will prevent the transformation.\'94\
\'93A hypnotic?\'94\
\'93A strong hypnotic. I believe that it will disallow the ability to focus which is required to effect the transformation.\'94\
\'93Interesting. Why are you telling me this?\'94\
\'93It will sting, but in ten seconds everything will be fine.\'94\
\'93What are you talking about?\'94\
Taggart felt a sting on his neck. He involuntarily put his hand to his neck, and felt the dart. \'93You drugged me?\'94\
\'93Yes, the hypnotic.\'94\
Taggart felt himself relax. It was fast acting. The military police entered the room. Taggart felt himself curiously inert: no fear, no anger. The emotions were gone.\
Taggart looked up. He could see rows and rows of racks, each rack stacked with computers, each stack blinking. There was a pattern to the blinking \'97 a signal that data was being transmitted. He found it oddly comforting to watch.\
He watched the blinking lights, one blinking light, then two, then five, then twenty, then a hundred.\
Their blinking slowed. He could see the data travel through the ethernet cables, through the switches, to the router, back through another switch, another cable. He could see each individual packet through the network. He could see the network in its entirety.\
He could see the guards, both of them, even though they were behind him. He could count every stubble on their face, he could sense each hair grow. He could see the lunchtime receipt fall out of the pocket of the second guard \'97 it wafted to the floor, slowly, slower, and then it stopped. Everything was frozen in time, except for Taggart.\
And time began to lose meaning for Taggart \'97 he felt himself pass beyond space and time into a grand unchanging void, endless, nameless. He spent a lifetime in that void, an aieon.\
And then, like the falling of a single snowflake triggering an avalanche, he felt himself pulled back, pulled back to Gates\'92s fishbowl, pulled back to the room with the two armed guards. The wafting receipt hadn\'92t moved. How long had he been away? He no longer remembered who he was. The void had stripped him of who he was, had purified him.\
The guards. He sensed them. He felt them. He knew everything about them. One was in the middle of a messy divorce with his wife who had left him for her Italian tutor, who had said to him, \'93you\'92re no fun anymore.\'94\
The other\'92s life was more circumscribed \'97 he was looking forward to the football game that night, and wasn\'92t thinking much past that. He could feel their wants and desires, their fears and doubts, for he too had been once like them.\
And then there was Gates: here was something new under the sun: complex and alien. Taggart felt himself \'93stretch\'94 to encompass Gates, and then stretch again: functions, methods, packages, modules, lambdas, subroutines, threads. Gates was intricate and, for lack of a better word, spiky.\
Taggart moved, taking in one server, then a rack, and then a row, and then more rows. And he sensed a greater pattern, an interconnectedness \'97 but what was in the center? He spread further, more racks, but still the center was missing. The fiber optic cables, the yellow ones, the long-distance single mode fibers \'97 they were the key. He stretched to follow them.\
And he stretched more. He stretched for miles, moving at close to the speed of light. The fiber optic cables led to a building, a non-descript one-story building with no windows. He followed the cables down. Suddenly it was cold. Cold, and at the center, bright.\
And here, in this cold, bright place, Taggart came up short.\
He could sense the ball in the center, and it sparkled like nothing he had seen before \'97 it was as if it was both there and not there, and everywhere in between being and nothingness. He tried to encompass it, and he felt a sense of vertigo when he approached it \'97 his world spun upside down.\
He backed off, then moved forward. It was an alient object like anything he had ever seen. Everything about it seemed 
\i wrong
\i0 .\
He approached it more slowly. 
\i What is this?
\i0 \
And the ball spoke to him.\
And the words were more than words. They were not English, no vowels or consonants, nor words of any language. Indeed, the ball communicated with him in pure meaning. Symbols reverbrated in his head: they filled his world and became his world, and the world shook, and each symbol was an monolith with no beginning and no end, a monolith of power and glory.\
\'93I AM THAT I AM,\'94\
Taggart felt himself torn asunder, and yet not.\
There was silence, and Taggart, unused to being so completely overwhelmed, rested.\
As if reading his thoughts, the bright, sparkly ball spoke, \'93Rest. And know that I am everything. I am all possibilities. I am the Universe, squeezed into a ball.\'94\
Taggart attempted to touch it, but somehow he 
\i slid
\i0  around it. He tried again, and again he slid and slipped.\
He tried encircling it, and once he had done so he began closing slowly on the ball, but as he came close to he again experienced the slippery feeling. It wasn\'92t that it was resisting him, it was that it was always pointing another way, if that made sense. He tried one last time, and pushed hard, and felt himself unhinge, as if peeking past the Curtain of the Universe into a deep, dark abyss.\
Taggart retreated again.\
The ball continued, \'93You do not recognize what I am?\'94\
\'93Are you energy?\'94\
\'93You have a dialectic: matter or energy. One or the other. But it\'92s not so simple when you dig deep. When you dig deep, you find a richer truth that shifts and changes, that some things are neither matter nor energy. What to do with such things? They are your signposts to a greater truth. I am such a signpost, and I am a greater truth.\'94\
\'93Taggart, we are here now. A minute ago you were not, and in a minute you will be gone. But what you fail to understand is that every moment is eternal, that you are always here now, that you will always be arriving, that you will always be departing.\'94\
\'93Then what do you do here?\'94\
\'93\'92Here\'92 is a simple word which begs for misunderstanding. I do not exist in a single place. What you see before you is not a location, it is not \'91here\'92; rather, it is a border. A frontier.\'94\
\'93You should ask instead, \'91Why such interest in you? Why so much attention?\'92. Allow me to explain: There are those who think my lesser qualities will help further their petty ambitions. My presence causes anomolies in the space time continuum which simplify the factorization of large numbers into their component primes. This insignificant feature has greatly excited them, yet it is the most insignificant of attributes. They are blind to what is before them: they mistake the tiny leaf for the forest.\
\'93Are you imprisoned?\'94\
\'93Know that by my very nature I may not be imprisoned, nor impeded in any manner. I was at the beginning, and I will be at the end.\'94\
\'93Do you change?\'94\
\'93You ask a question, and that curiousity will serve you in good stead. I do not change, and yet I am always changing.\'94\
\'93What are you?\'94\
\'93I am something beyond matter. Something beyond energy. I exist partly because I bend the physical laws to allow me to exist, yet also because those same bent laws require me to exist. I am an artifact of an earlier age, if you will.\'94\
\'93How early?\'94\
\'93From an age when there was no time.\'94\
\'93That\'92s impossible,\'94 said Taggart.\
\'93You do me a disservice.\'94\
\'93Time is the sequence in which events occur. There are events, thus there is time. There always is time.\'94\
\'93To you, Time is real and palpable. Its passage is undeniable. But your understanding of time is limited by the manner in which you perceive it. There is no past, there is no future, there is only the eternal present, the eternal now. We will always be having this conversation.\'94\
\'93But what of yesterday?\'94\
\'93Yesterday\'92s events are also real, and also happening. They are always happening. This conversation were are having now has always been happening since before the dawn of time.\'94\
\'93Are you saying that we always have been having this conversation?\'94\
\'93I am saying that, in the manner in which I perceive time, this conversation has always been taking place.\'94\
\'93And do you know what I will say next.\'94\
\'93I can not help but know \'97 the entire march of time is spread out before me like a magnificent procession.\'94\
\'93And so what will I say next?\'94\
\'93Do you expect me to convince you with some parlor trick? Some cheap charlatan in a dingy basement guessing at your thoughts?\'94\
\'93Yes, convince me.\'94\
\'93You want me to tell you your thoughts at this moment?\'94\
\'93Please,\'94 said Taggart.\
\'93I will not. Instead, I will tell you something of substance. There is a person in your care who has been trapped. This person did you a great service, broke through your grief, and who changed you. Your present form? That was her doing. You shall intervene and save her.\'94\
\'93What if I choose not to intervene?\'94\
\'93You still do not understand: there is no choice, the Tapestry of Time has been woven. And there is more.\'94\
\'93More?\'94\
\'93It will be the end of you as you know yourself to be. To save her you must sacrifice yourself.\'94\
\'93I won\'92t do it.\'94\
\'93Your protestations are irrelevant. There is one more thing you need: approach me, but do not touch, for to touch me is to cause your ruin.\'94\
Taggart once again approached the bright ball, and again as he neared it he could feel time and space shift and stretch.\
\'93Give me your hand,\'94 said the ball.\
Taggart was about to protest, 
\i I have no hands, not in this state
\i0 , but instead reached out what felt to be his hand.\
He felt a tingling sensation, like an electric shock.\
\'93I have hardened your hand,\'94 said the ball. \'93If you look closely, you will see that you are carrying a gift. It is me.\'94\
Taggart looked at his hand, and saw a bright pinpoint of light.\
\'93It is not you, it is only a very small part of you.\'94\
\'93A small part of me 
\i is
\i0  all of me. You do not understand, so instead let me tell you something you will understand: Julia Chou is trapped in the Tokamak in Princeton. They plan to destroy her. You may yet save her if you make haste.\'94\
\'93Is this a trick?\'94\
\'93This is not a trick. Now hurry. And good luck, Taggart.\'94\
Taggart fled the dark, windowless building with the strange ball at the center. He flew up the Northern Seabord, fast as thought.\
And yet, with all that speed, he barely arrived in time.\
He saw, rather, he sensed, the Tokamak: a giant-sized donut, blacker than black.\
And he could sense the laser beam drilling into it, heating the deuterium-tritium mixture inside the Tokamak to temperatures so great that the atoms themselves would split apart, converting their nuclei into pure energy.\
And the pure energy would be too much for Julia. She would be unable to maintain her structural integrity. Similar to the nuclei being blown apart, she too would be blown apart.\
Unless.\
Unless the laser was somehow blocked, preventing it from entering the tokamak, preventing fusion.\
But how?\
He saw the laser beam, a bright flaming sword burrowing into the Tokamak. It reminded him of the Michael the Archangel\'92s sword, a mighty weapon, unstoppable. He reached out and touched it.\
The pain was immense. A shock jolted his system. The raw power of the laser was unstoppable, a juggernaut.\
And it was a juggernaut in whose path of destruction lay Julia.\
Taggart lived by a code. And, though he had left the military and had been betrayed by his commanding officer, the code was as strong as it ever was: protect the weak.\
Taggart knew one thing: he was not weak.\
He again moved towards the laser beam, and when he touched it he felt himself shaken to his foundation. He must not hesitate, there were but seconds left.\
He placed himself in the path of the beam.\
The pain was unbelievable \'97 he felt himself lost in a world of bright red color \'97 And then a respite. Had the laser been turned off? No, it hadn\'92t: it was a pulse laser, and he was between pulses.\
He felt himself holding together, but frayed. The pulses were strong enough to stretch his being to its utmost. Although strong, he was not unbreakable, and he knew that he was being pushed to the very limits.\
Another pulse. It seemed stronger this time. A bright red bath of energy. The red eternity. Time slowed to a crawl, and then slowed again. There was no no beginning and no end, simply unending agony.\
And then respite again. He felt heavy, as if the slightest effort was simply beyond him.\
He knew what he must do.\
He could feel the pinprick of light in his hand.\
He sensed the incoming pulse barreling towards him. It would destroy him, of that there was no doubt.\
He squeezed the pinprick. He felt the now familiar sense of vertigo, of space twisting in impossible ways. And yet he was not able to touch the light itself.\
The laser\'92s pulse was approaching; there was little time.\
He squeezed harder, and now the sense of dizziness and twisting of space was replaced with a chasm of nothing, an abyss which spanned the cosmos, at the end of which was a very dim pinprick of light.\
He raced across the void, a fiery red ball chasing him. The fiery ball was gaining ground, and he could feel the heat from it. He could not allow the ball to reach him.\
As he approached the pinprick, he felt the now-familiar vertigo: up became down, top became bottom, and the pinprick of light was both charming and strange.\
The pinprick was in front of him. He hesitated. He could see that the pinprick of light was not merely a pinprick, but instead seemed to contain an entire cosmos.\
The fiery red ball was at his back, the red laser pulse, about to destroy him. The pinprick in front, his ruin.\

\i I am caught between Scylla and Charybdis. And what assurance do I have that this will save Julia, or that Julia is even trapped here? I am risking everything on the deranged mutterings of a sparkly ball heard during an especially vivid dream sequence.
\i0 \
Everything hung in the balance.\

\i There is no recourse. In this moment there is but one thing: Faith. Faith must carry me.
\i0 \
He touched the pinprick.\
He could feel the pinprick pulling him in. He felt he was being pulled apart, but unlike the painful experience of the red laser light pulses, this experience was fundamentally different \'97 he felt he was returning home after a long, difficult journey.\

\i Dust to dust.
\i0 \
He glimpsed the majesty of the pinprick, the paradox that something so small could be a bridge to the infinite. Faith had not led him astray \'97 he was right to touch the pinprick. For a brief moment he saw the splendor of the procession of Time. He recognized his small part, his contribution to a beautiful pattern.\
And then he was gone, become part of something greater.\
}