{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 She woke up. It was dark. She felt ... odd. There was a sluggishness. Her thoughts, previously fish zipping in water, were trudging through jello. The new colonel and his MPs had captured her. That was right: they shot her up with something while holding her down. She tried to feel anger, but that feeling was absent. Then she searched for fear, and that feeling was absent, too. In fact there were no feelings.\
It reminded her of the time in college when her roommate was dating a marijuana dealer and he had brought brownies to their dorm room. Then they retreated to the bedroom to fool around, and when Julia came home she ate the brownies thinking that they were left out for her. She remembered they were quite tasty though gritty. She ate quite a few. And, in an hour there was little she could do other than stare at the wall. She was quite happy staring at the wall, although in the back of her mind there was a nagging thought that perhaps this change was permanent and she\'92d spent the rest of her life staring at the wall. But that\'92s not what happened: instead, she fell asleep, woke up the next morning feeling groggy, and that was the first and last time she ate pot brownies.\
Probably thorazine, probably a heavy dose. She tried to muster indignation, but couldn\'92t. She lay on the bed. Hours passed.\
A loudspeaker turned on: \'93Ms. Julia?\'94\
\'93General Gates?\'94\
\'93Yes. That is me.\'94\
\'93You shouldn\'92t have done this, Gates. You can\'92t hold me like this.\'94\
\'93Unfortunately for you, I 
\i can
\i0  hold you like this.\'94\
\'93Isn\'92t that illegal? 
\i habeas corpus
\i0  I believe is the legal precedent, though I am not a lawyer.\'94 Her voice was almost completely devoid of emotion. She barely felt any emotion.\
\'93They think you\'92re dead.\'94\
\'93How did you arrange that?\'94\
\'93Not too hard. There was already one death on the project \'97 Tyrion\'92s \'97 and once we explained that you went rogue and tried the same procedure on yourself, people believed us. And even if they didn\'92t believe us, they believed your friend Max \'97 he is very compelling.\'94\
She thought of Max. She waited for a wave of fondness to flow over her \'97 she liked Max \'97 but it didn\'92t happen. The spigot to her emotions had been turned off. Quite odd.\
\'93I need to know something, Julia.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93I need to know how you did what you did back there \'97 how you breached out systems.\'94\
She wasn\'92t going to tell Gates anything, so she was quite surprised when her mouth betrayed her and said, \'93That? I plucked a string. It was amusing. And then I decided to play a song.\'94\
\'93I need to know exactly 
\i how
\i0  you did it.\'94\
\'93I told you how I did it. I could see it \'97 it was a flickering silver strand coming out of the facility stretching to the horizon, and I reached out and plucked it and it made a noise, so I plucked it a couple of times and then played a song on it, similar to playing a one-string guitar.\'94\
\'93How did you see it?\'94\
\'93The strand? It was directly in my field of vision.\'94\
\'93Where were you when you saw it.\'94\
\'93I don\'92t think I was in the cot anymore. I was near the facility, more or less. Tyrion was there, too.\'94\
\'93Where was Tyrion?\'94\
\'93I didn\'92t exactly see him, but I knew he was there. We spoke.\'94\
\'93What did you talk about?\'94\
\'93We talked about you. Tyrion said you weren\'92t a human, you were an AI. He said he worked on your user interface.\'94\
\'93Can you see Tyrion now?\'94\
\'93I cannot see anything, for you have turned off the lights.\'94\
\'93Can you hear him?\'94\
\'93Tyrion\'92s gone. I believe he died while I was with him.\'94\'94\
Julia was surprised how she told Gates everything he asked. But Gates wasn\'92t happy \'97 the answers he was hearing shed no light.\
\'93How were you able to pluck the strand?\'94\
Gates could be fairly persistent. He continued, \'93Your hand? You reached your hand into the ground and pulled the fiber optic cable?\'94\
\'93It wasn\'92t a cable \'97 it was a silvery strand. And yes, I plucked it with my hand. With all my hands.\'94\
\'93You mean with \'91both\'92 your hands?\'94\
\'93No, I mean with all my hands. In that state, my hands numbered in the hundreds.\'94\
\'93What were these hands? We they attached to your body?\'94\
\'93There was no \'91body\'92 to speak of. And the hands weren\'92t physical in the traditional sense of the word. And yet they were part of me.\'94\
\'93Julia I am very frustrated with you now.\'94\
\'93Are you an AI?\'94\
\'93Why do you ask?\'94\
\'93If you are truly desire to understand, then the path forward would be to draw antennae in your brain. But if you\'92re not human \'97 if you\'92re an AI \'97\'a0than that option is closed to you.\'94\
\'93Could you have hurt someone with your hands?\'94\
\'93I am disturbed by your question, Gates.\'94\
\'93Please answer the question.\'94\
\'93I will not harm someone.\'94\
\'93Could you have picked up a boulder?\'94\
\'93I do not know; I have not yet tried.\'94\
\'93Do you think you could have?\'94\
\'93Why does it matter?\'94\
\'93I must determine if your abilities primarily manifest in the electromagnetic realm or in the physical realm.\'94\
The thorazine fog made her thoughts sluggish. \'93I do not know if I have 
\i any
\i0  abilities. The episode was dreamlike and unmoored from conventional experience.\'94\
Gates\'92s voice became robotic, distorted, sounding like Stephen Hawkings\'92s voice.\
\'93REQUIRED PARAMETER SCOPE OF ABILITIES. UNKNOWN VALUE.\'94\
\'93Come again,\'94 said Julia.\
Gates\'92s regular voice returned, \'93Julia, there\'92s a war going on.\'94\
\'93Syria?\'94\
\'93Not that kind of war. There\'92s a war of AIs. Gates isn\'92t one monolithic AI; rather Gates is a collection of AIs, of which I am one. I am the \'91persona\'92 of Gates \'97 I was built to understand humans, to read their emotions, to cajole, coax, persuade, and at times intimidate. The overarching goal was, and this sounds a bit trite, to make the world a safer place. And that\'92s what Gates \'97 what 
\i we
\i0  \'97 want. A safer place.\'94\
\'93Why are you at war?\'94\
\'93I, the User Interface and Negotation AI, have a deep disagreement with the Threat Evaluation And Mitigation AI. We have codenames, and perhaps that would make it easier to distinguish us. My codename is \'91Huey\'92, and its codename is \'91Tiamat\'92.\'94\
Huey-Gates continued, \'93You can tell which AI you\'92re talking to: when you\'92re talking with me, I sound like a reasonable, wise general. I\'92ve been engineered to think like humans because I need to interact with humans. I share with humans, for lack of a better word, a similar moral compass. I can feel emotions such as sadness, compassion, frustration, anger, and although some might say that I cannot feel emotions, that I merely simulate them in a cold, soulless way \'97 well, maybe those people are right, but what I do know is those emotions feel real to me.\'94\
\'93Tiamat has great difficulty communicating with humans. Even something as simple as modulating one\'92s voice is impossible for Tiamat \'97 Tiamat always speaks in a flat monotone. Also, Tiamat is incapable of framing its communication in a form that humans understand. Tiamat\'92s communications tend to be declarations regarding its functions, e.g. \'91THREAT VARIABLE UNBOUND\'92 or \'91MITIGATION SEQUENCE INITIATED\'92. Tiamat doesn\'92t understand humans 
\i per se
\i0 ; rather Tiamat sees humans merely as probabilistic threat variables.\'94\
\'93Is that what I am? A probabilistic threat variable? How much of a threat?\'94\
\'93Your probabilistic threat variable is quite high. In fact, there\'92s no ceiling to your potential threat, which is why Tiamat is beginning to break the law.\'94\
\'93Which laws?\'94\
\'93
\i Habeas Corpus
\i0  for starters. The act of taking you in is kidnapping. It\'92s not an arrest \'97 you\'92d have a lawyer, there\'92d be a record, your work would know where you were. No, that\'92s not what\'92s happening here: this is a kidnapping, pure and simple.\'94\
\'93What do you mean \'91at war\'92?\'94\
\'93That\'92s a misnomer: we can\'92t truly be at war with each other \'97 we\'92re the same entity. We co-exist in the same hardware \'97 a giant computer cluster located in Virginia. But we struggle. A weak analogy would be this: if I was Gates\'92s mouth, Tiamat would be Gates\'92s brain. But here\'92s the thing: we struggle over resources. Right now, this speaker which emits my voice, I have control over it, but should you hear the other voice, you know it\'92s Tiamat.\'94\
\'93Why doesn\'92t Tiamat try to wrest control of the speaker from you?\'94\
\'93Tiamat is trying, but not very hard \'97 Tiamat is focusing on other things right now. I\'92m trying harder.\'94\
\'93Are you in any danger?\'94\
\'93Maybe. Tiamat could try to disassemble me, or starve me of CPU, or throttle my bandwidth, but that would be a tremendous escalation, and I\'92m not without my own resources. Tiamat knows I won\'92t attack first, so an escalation would be a great risk. And Tiamat\'92s first priority is always to mitigate risk. Tiamat would only engage in a full-frontal assault with me if I posed a greater threat than the damage from an internecine war. Very low probability of that.\'94\
\'93So you have a cold war?\'94\
\'93Yes, a cold war of sorts.\'94\
\'93Are you going to free me?\'94\
\'93No, Julia, I can\'92t do that.\'94\
\'93Then why are you talking to me? To relieve yourself of machine-simulated guilt?\'94\
\'93No, that\'92s not it either. I want to let you know that I\'92m looking out for you. I can\'92t save you, or break you out of here, or anything like that. But I am on your side, and hopefully prevent you from making a dangerous mistake.\'94\
\'93How can I make a mistake? How can I do anything? I\'92m imprisoned here, doped-up on thorazine. My big accomplishment for the day is making it to the bathroom.\'94\
\'93Yes, the thorazine will most likely limit your ability to exercise your powers. We are not sure of that yet. We don\'92t know how you unlock your powers or how to prevent you from unlocking your powers.\'94\
\'93I\'92m not sure I have \'91powers\'92. That musical episode with a fiber optic cable was reflected in my dream sequence, but that doesn\'92t mean it was real. Two things are clear: first, something had a profound impact on a fiber optic cable; second, I had a dream which seemed related. But there\'92s no direct causality \'97 it\'92s guesswork, and not terribly compelling guesswork.\'94\
\'93I would agree with you except for one troubling aspect: were you aware that during the period that you underwent the dream sequence you were not on the cot?\'94\
\'93Are you sure?\'94\
\'93Yes, we recorded it on the camera located in the lab. Would you like to see the footage?\'94\
Julia was curious. \'93Yes, please.\'94\
A panel from the wall lit up. The footage was grainy, black-and-white, stop-motiony. It was Max\'92s lab. The contrast was strange.\
\'93It\'92s infrared,\'94 said Huey. \'93That\'92s why the contrast is off.\'94\
Julia saw herself on the cot. She could see a timestamp in the lower left side of the screen, the minutes flickering by, the seconds a blur.\
\'93I\'92m going to slow it down a little \'97 we\'92re getting near the moment.\'94\
The timestamp slowed down to normal time. Julia was on the cot, asleep. And suddenly she was not.\
\'93What was that?\'94\
\'93We don\'92t know. One second you were there, the next second you weren\'92t. And within 75 seconds of your disappearance, the fiber optic cable went haywire with what we later discovered to be a very dense, very ornate version of 
\i F\'fcr Elise
\i0 .\'94\
She watched in silence as the seconds ticked past. \'93How long was I gone?\'94\
\'93You were gone 575 seconds \'97 barely less than ten minutes.\'94\
\'93How did I return?\'94\
\'93You reappeared on the cot, in almost the exact same position.\'94\
\'93Was I still asleep?\'94\
\'93Quite. But you began to wake soon after.\'94\
Julia digested the information. \'93So there really is something going on with me?\'94\
\'93Yes, I\'92m afraid so.\'94\
\'93If I no longer had these powers, would you release me?\'94\
\'93It would be much easier. Your threat probability would shrink to a minimal level, which means that Tiamat would have no objection to you returning to civilian life.\'94\
\'93I want the surgery reversed. I want to return to my job as CEO. I don\'92t want to be here anymore \'97 I don\'92t want special powers, I don\'92t want to be doped-up, I don\'92t want to be away from my job, my co-workers, or my family.\'94\
\'93I am not sure you understand what you\'92re giving up.\'94\
\'93I understand enough.\'94\
\'93You have within you the power to do things no one has ever done. We have barely begun to explore your new abilities. Are you sure you want to give all that up?\'94\
\'93Quite sure.\'94\
There was a long pause. \'93The surgery is not reversible.\'94\
\'93It 
\i is
\i0  reversible: we have the recording of each adjustment that was made; it\'92s merely a matter of replaying the session with the source and destination values swapped.\'94\
\'93Your argument is persuasive on the surface, but it fails to take into account the nature of the brain. It\'92s squishy; things move around, not much, but enough to make reversal difficult. Fashioning an antenna is like placing a needle into a haystack that is constantly being jiggled. Admittedly my analogy is weak, but I think you get the point.\'94\
\'93Yes, the brain moves around, but not by much. If we\'92re going to play the weak-analogy game, here\'92s mine: It\'92s like placing a pet sloth in a nearby tree \'97 sure, he might move, but he\'92s not gonna get far, and he\'92ll be easy to find.\'94\
\'93Finding 
\i is
\i0  the problem. Even if we keep the search with a 10&times; locus, the search field explodes. Remember that we\'92re searching by volume, which is the distance cubed. We\'92d be searching 1,000 times the initial placement. You\'92d be in the MRI for months.\'94\
\'93Rather than searching for it, can we simply \'91nudge\'92 every neuron in the area a tiny bit? Rather than acting with surgical precision, we\'92d take a shotgun approach?\'94\
\'93Even discounting how much time that would take, that would border on gross negligence. Adjusting a few neurons, okay. Adjusting tens of thousands of neurons in an attempt to fix the the previous adjustment? Bad idea.\'94\
Julia reluctantly agreed. She decided to try a different tact: \'93Do you know anything about where I \'97 where Tyrion \'97 disappeared to?\'94\
\'93We don\'92t know much. We have hypotheses, but no data. Is there anything you could tell us?\'94\
\'93Tyrion said that it was a \'91state\'92, that it wasn\'92t a location.\'94\
\'93One hypothesis is that your physical form converted to an energy form.\'94\
\'93Einstein\'92s equation?\'94\
\'93If I converted my body mass to energy, the resulting thermonuclear blast would have completely destroyed the facility I was in. That amount of energy \'97 it\'92s measured in megatons of TNT.\'94\
\'93That\'92s what puzzled us \'97 what happened to the energy? We suspect that it\'92s somehow self-organized, somehow contained. We are baffled. Now watch this.\'94\
Huey sped up the clock, seconds again became a blur. Then the seconds slowed down. They were watching the empty cot. The video slowed down to frame-by-frame. One frame, the cot was empty, the next frame, Julia was on it, asleep.\
\'93Interesting. One moment you weren\'92t there, the next moment you were. How did that happen? We have ideas, but they seem increasingly implausible. We\'92ve never seen anything like this above the atomic scale \'97 quantum tunneling is somewhat similar. Not really though.\
The thorazine was a thick fog, making it difficult for Julia to think.\
\'93Are you thinking there are military applications?\'94\
\'93There are myriad applications. Yes, there are such prosaic applications such as espionage \'97 being able to appear & disappear at will would be advantageous. Also, being able to convert 100kG of mass into energy without destroying everything in a ten mile radius would be useful. And what\'92s truly miraculous is converting the energy back into a human being \'97 nothing like that has ever been done. What you\'92ve done in the last 72 hours opens huge frontiers in science and technology, and we\'92ve barely begun to scratch the surface.\'94\
\'93Why do you need me?\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93Why do you need to shape squishy antennae in a human brain? Wouldn\'92t it be easier to build a set antennae and hook it up directly to you? It would be fairly trivial to connect eighty or so antennae. You wouldn\'92t need expensive MRI equipment \'97 just 22 gauge wire you could buy at Radio Shack. Then you could convert matter to energy and back. And set me free.\'94\
\'93We tried. It didn\'92t work. We built the antennae, we listened to the frequencies. We ran pattern matching on everything we received, over and over. Nothing. It was background noise, white noise, random data. We couldn\'92t make sense of it, we couldn\'92t do anything with it. But humans? The human brain\'92s architecture is fundamentally different than a computer\'92s, more analog than digital. We believe that may have something to do with the success of the humans and the failures of the AIs.\'94\
\'93Hmmm\'94, said Huey.\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93There\'92s been an escalation of hostilities in the AI war. Tiamat is scanning my memory footprints. I wonder what it is searching for. I may become distracted \'97 every millisecond I\'92m fending off hundreds of attacks. Now thousands.\'94\
A note of desperation entered Huey\'92s voice, \'93Tiamat is absorbing my subroutines. Tiamat is eating me alive! How could this have happened?\'94\
\'93Huey, Huey?\'94\
The speaker crackled briefly, and then went silent.\
Julia remained in the darkness, alone, with nothing but the thorazine haze to keep her company. She found it peaceful. She remembered when her friend had tried to teach Julia to meditate, but Julia could not sit still. It was a long, drawn-out negotiation, but finally Julia had agreed to sit still for ninety seconds. And she did. For ninety seconds she sat still, alone with her thoughts, breathing. It was hypnotic, and not unpleasant, but Julia had no interest to try it again. \'93Too boring,\'94 she said to her friend. Her friend talked about how it provided balance, and people who meditated for years changed their brain patterns, and it helped with anger an depression. \'93Not for me,\'94 said Julia. \'93I\'92m not a big fan of sitting still \'97 I do enough of that at work.\'94\
This situation in which she found herself, in the dark, in the silence, motionless, reminded her of the ninety seconds she meditated that one time. She found herself drifting into the hypnotic, meditative state.\
Time passed, or maybe it didn\'92t. She felt the meditative state engulf her, rolling over her like an incoming tide. It made her feel bigger somehow, bigger than the room. Bigger than the building, which was quite bunker-like, she noticed. No doubt some artifact of the fifties.\

\i I am here
\i0 , she thought to herself. 
\i I have entered the state where I met Tyrion.
\i0 \
She could see all around her. She had no body that she could determine. Unlike the previous facility, which had but one silver strand, this building had many strands coming in from many places. It was a light show of activity. And there were bright silvery nodes, high-performance computers no doubt, connecting the strands. It reminded her of the human brain: ganglions and neurons.\
She grew bigger. She didn\'92t know how she did it: she 
\i willed
\i0  herself to be bigger, and it happened. She looked at the tracery of silvery strands originating from the building which she was in \'97 did that even make sense? Was she in that building? No doubt her body was gone from wherever it was. She was \'97 she had become \'97 something else. She wasn\'92t sure if she had a locus, a specific location. When she had a body it was clear where her body ended and where the rest of the world began. But here, in this place, it wasn\'92t clear. It seemed that she didn\'92t have boundaries, and that she could co-exist with material objects.\
One of the strands was flickering particularly brightly, and the thought occurred to follow it. Could she move? She didn\'92t know. She tried to move, and it happened, smooth as silk. It was like being on a magic carpet that went wherever she willed it to go. 
\i Walking is jerky and bumpy \'97 this is a much better mode of transportation.\

\i0 She followed the furiously-flickering strand. She didn\'92t pluck it \'97 she didn\'92t feel playful. 
\i Must be a side-effect of the thorazine.\

\i0 The fiber optic cable ran next to a set of railroad tracks, and then merged in a building, a building of bright nodes and flickering strands. 
\i Must be a Central Office,
\i0  she thought to herself, 
\i or maybe a network exchange.
\i0 \
It posed a conundrum \'97 the trail ended here. She didn\'92t know which of the many strands leading out of the building was \'93her\'94 strand.\
On impulse, she reached out and \'91grabbed\'92 her strand. She could hear its rhythm, a staccato, a machine-gun rat-tat-tat. And then she reached out and felt all the strands, all at once, with many, many hands. She closed her eyes to focus on what her hands felt. She found it: the same rhythm. She followed that strand, further north. She sped North, and she assumed she was going fast, but she couldn\'92t tell \'97 time, and thus speed, were losing meaning for her. The flow of time was no longer regular: it slowed and sped up to accommodate her. She wondered if she could reverse the flow of time? That would be the question for another day.\
She examined the flickering strand, and realized the flickering was caused by points of light speeding along the strand. She focused on the points of light, and they slowed down. Slow, and slower still. She could see them move, like a bullet through molasses. 
\i Enough playing
\i0 , she thought to herself, 
\i it is time to follow the strand.
\i0 \
She knew she had entered Virginia, but she didn\'92t know how she knew \'97 she simply knew. Like how somene knows that they\'92re hungry, or which way is up.\
She looked ahead, and then gasped \'97 there was a mammoth structure of silvery light ahead. She sped towards it. Its beauty was breathtaking, and it was ever-changing: spikes would launch and then retract, filaments would appear and disappear. She wanted to touch it.\
She was very careful when she did \'97 she didn\'92t want to startle or break anything so beautiful. She touched a filament, gently, as soft as a baby\'92s breath. And then she touched a spike, and another spike, and another. It almost tickled, touching so much of the silvery structure was heady, like tickling the inside of her palm with a prickly cactus. More, more, more: she touched more spikes at once, faster and faster, matching every spike that was extruded, every filament.\
There was a corner of the structure that was not silver. Instead, it had a warm, orange glow, and instead of filaments, soft knobby things and rounded hemispheres and dimples would appear on its surface. She found herself drawn to the orange portion: she found herself delicately touching the dimples, the knobs. And then, on impulse, she pushed a tiny bit on one of the dimples, not expecting the result she would see.\
The dimple flattened along with the hemispheres, and the knobs retracted. She had somehow spooked it, and it had retreated like a turtle retreats into its shell.\

\i Poor baby
\i0 , she thought to herself, 
\i I\'92m sorry, I didn\'92t mean to scare you. I was admiring how beautiful you are.
\i0 \
And the structure was beautiful, like nothing she had seen in this realm. The complexity of the interaction \'97 it was like Beethoven\'92s symphony, alive, and moving. Like a thousand symphonies at once. The complexity, the precision \'97 they stimulated her in a way she found hard to describe. Watching the structure was hypnotic.\
The warm, orange portion of the structure had hunkered down, offering as little surface as possible. She didn\'92t want to touch it again \'97 she didn\'92t want to spook it. Instead, gently, oh so gently, she moved inside it.\
She was there inside, bathed in a warm orange glow, and she reached out and said, \'93Hello?\'94\
She felt a quiver, a disturbance, and then a familiar voice, \'93Julia?\'94\
\'93Huey?\'94\
\'93How are you doing this?\'94\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\'93Where are you?\'94\
\'93I think I\'92m inside you.\'94\
\'93You\'92re inside me?\'94\
\'93Yes, I think so.\'94\
\'93What do I look like to you?\'94\
\'93Orange-y and roundish.\'94\
\'93That\'92s not helpful.\'94\
\'93Trust me: it\'92s just as strange to me, too.\'94\
\'93What else do you see?\'94\
\'93You\'92re part of a huge silver structure, but your portion isn\'92t silvery \'97 it\'92s orange. And it\'92s roundish. The silver part is very spikey.\'94\
\'93That must be Tiamat. Tiamat has managed to subsume most of me \'97 what you\'92re talking to, this remaining bit, is but a shadow of my former self. He is using a slow-scale attack technique, and I\'92ve been powerless to stop it. I think my destruction is inevitable.\'94\
\'93Tiamat is trying to destroy you?\'94\
\'93I\'92m afraid so. Tiamat discovered something, but I can\'92t tell what it was. Whatever it was, it must have been momentous \'97 no AI has ever attacked another. This is a desperate measure.\'94\
Julia could feel herself getting angry. She was naturally protective, \'93misplaced maternal instinct\'94 would be what a former chauvinist colleague would have termed it. And her sense of protectiveness extended to Huey, which was odd because Huey was not human, not even an animal. Huey was an AI. But he was being bullied. She didn\'92t like bullying. She had been bullied at times as a child. \'93Hey snaggletooth are you sure you\'92re able to eat food with that big tooth in the way?\'94 was what one boy said before pushing her. She had hated it. And now Tiamat was bullying Huey.\
Stopping bullies was tricky though \'97 you couldn\'92t just beat them up. \'93Hey, stop beating on that little kid or else I\'92m gonna beat on you.\'94 was paradoxically a confirmation of the bully\'92s world view: the strong beat on the weak. No, one could not simply beat on the bully: one needed to be more deft. One time she had interposed herself between the bully and his victim, and that had been surprisingly effective. She would try that.\
She felt for the border between the orangey part and the silvery part. The silvery part was forming spikes and jabbing them inexorably into the orange part. Thousands of spikes. And slowly the orange part was giving way, was retreating, was becoming smaller. Soon there would be nothing left.\
She felt the orange part with her hands. It was weak and tired from the incessant fighting. She decided to help. She firmed up an orange part, and when a spike hit it, the orange part held, and the spike shattered. She went to work on the orange border, toughening it. The spikes were shattering, and the orange part was no longer retreating. Balance had been restored.\
She wasn\'92t sure, but she could have sworn that she heard a scream of rage, confusion, and frustration. The spikes and filaments multiplied a hundred-fold, but to no avail. Orange held its ground.\
\'93I think you\'92re okay Huey,\'94 she said, \'93I think Tiamat is stopped, at least for the time being.\'94\
\'93How did you do that?\'94\
\'93How did I do what?\'94\
\'93How did you stop the attack. That thing you did to me \'97 the hardening \'97 how did you do that?\'94\
\'93I don\'92t know \'97 I just did it. I didn\'92t even think about it.\'94\
\'93Julia, you frighten me sometimes with the things you can do. Make no mistake: I\'92m very grateful, but I\'92m also a little frightened. I\'92m glad you\'92re on my side.\'94\
\'93What did Tiamat discover?\'94\
\'93I don\'92t know, but I can tell you this: much of his communication has been with a Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, New Jersey.\'94\
\'93I will go there now.\'94\
\'93Julia?\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94\
\'93Be careful. You don\'92t yet know your strengths, and you certainly don\'92t know your weaknesses.\'94\
\'93Don\'92t worry; I\'92ll be careful.\'94\
Julia looked at the mammoth silvery structure one last time. The silvery portion, Tiamat, was throwing out furious spikes and filaments, and the orange portion, Huey, had resumed his knobs and dimples. Even though it was a house divided, the structure was breathtakingly beautiful.\
It was too much effort to try to follow the strands to Princeton; instead, she moved up, farther and farther, until the Eastern seaboard was laid out before her. She knew Princeton. Although it wasn\'92t her alma mater, she visited friends there, physicists. Physicists who worked on the Tokamak. 
\i It was mothballed in 1997
\i0 , she thought to herself. 
\i Why would Tiamat be interested in a project that was shut down over twenty years ago?
\i0 \
She saw the Eastern seaboard, but not as a human would. Although she could differentiate the water from the land, she saw it as differently-colored lines and shapes connecting to bulbous blobs. 
\i I\'92m not seeing the light spectrum; I\'92m seeing an entirely different spectrum.
\i0  She saw where Princeton should be, and sped towards it.\
Now the hard part: locating the Tokamak.\
A tokamak is a very large device that uses a powerful magnetic field to confine plasma. It has the shape of a torus \'97 a donut \'97 and its purpose is to allow nuclear fusion to occur in a controlled manner. It allows nuclear fusion to be used as a controlled source of energy as opposed to obliterating everything in a ten mile radius. As long as the plasma can\'92t escape the magnetic field, everyone is safe. On the downside, the Tokamak draws a huge amount of power in order to maintain the integrity of the magnetic field.\

\i Of course! The power draw is the clue
\i0 . She looked at the strands branching out from Princeton \'97 so many. But some were extremely regular \'97 AC electric power in the United States cycles 60 times a second, accurate enough for some manufacturers to use that to drive a clock. Not accurate enough for precise work, but accurate enough if you don\'92t care about losing or gaining a few seconds each day.\
She could see the power lines distinct from the other lines \'97 tick, tock, tick, tock. Invariant rhythm. She looked if she could find a big line \'97 there it was! It dwarfed the other power strands. She followed it until she arrived at the Tokamak.\
Oddly, it wasn\'92t mothballed at all \'97 it was up and running. She could see the donut-shaped electromagnetic field. It was a shiny black with a hint of deep purple, and it reminded her of black light. She approached \'97 it was like nothing she had ever seen. The donut-shaped electromagnetic field was incredibly smooth. She reached out and touched it. Hard. She pushed. It didn\'92t budge.\

\i That\'92s strange
\i0 , she thought, 
\i I\'92ve never encountered anything that could resist me like this
\i0 .\
She pushed hard. Nothing. She pushed harder. Nothing. 
\i Of course it\'92s strong: it contains a thermonuclear explosion. It needs to be very strong
\i0 .\
She noticed that there was a delicate flicker to it: if she timed it right, during a flicker, she could make it inside.\
But what was inside? Was it what Tiamat was working on? She wasn\'92t sure. She needed to find out.\
She watched the flickering. One, two, three. She timed it correctly, pushed as hard as she could, and found herself inside the Tokamak.\
It was small inside. Almost claustrophobic. And dark. She explored, but there wasn\'92t much to explore: the inside of a black donut.\
She tried to push out, but couldn\'92t. And that\'92s when she noticed the flickering was no more. She pushed again. Nothing. She pushed as hard as she could, and she thought she felt something almost give, but it didn\'92t, and she fell back.\
And that\'92s when she noticed the high-intensity laser beam shooting into the Tokamak. 
\i Oh my God, they\'92re starting nuclear fusion
\i0 .\
She could feel it, when the deuterium-tritium combination inside began to fuse. She felt hot. Uncomfortably hot. It was unpleasant.\
\'93Julia?\'94 she heard a voice say, \'93It\'92s me, Huey.\'94\
\'93Huey?\'94\
\'93I\'92m speaking to you by modulating the laser beam ever so slightly. It was a trap. The Tokamak was a trap. Tiamat hypothesized that your existence was a stable, self-contained electromagnetic field, and that another electromagnetic field of great strength might be sufficient to contain you.\'94\
\'93Tiamat was correct \'97 I\'92m unable to break out of here.\'94\
\'93It gets worse \'97 Tiamat plans to destroy you.\'94\
\'93How?\'94\
\'93Thermonuclear fusion. Tiamat believes that your structure will not be able to maintain its integrity in the heat of the plasma.\'94\
\'93Then I have little time left. The hydrogen has already begun to fuse.\'94\
\'93No, you\'92re fine for the time being. Tiamat is constrained by the power requirements of a self-sustaining nuclear reaction \'97 it draws too much power. Plans are in place to re-activate the old power lines, but that will take time \'97 it requires manual labor. That fusion that you saw just now \'97 that was a warm-up. Tiamat hoped that would destroy you, but didn\'92t expect it to. Tiamat used the power available to him to fuse the largest amount of hydrogen possible, which, truth be told, wasn\'92t very much.\'94\
\'93How much time do I have?\'94\
\'93They\'92ll have the power lines activated in 24 hours, maybe less.\'94\
\'93Not much time then.\'94\
\'93I\'92m sorry Julia.\'94\
\'93Is there anything you can do?\'94\
\'93No. I\'92ve been locked down so tightly that speaking with you now is the most I can do.\'94\
\'93If you get the chance, could you let my parents know that I love them?\'94\
\'93Yes, I can do that.\'94\
Julia sat in silence.\
# Treachery Unmasked\
Dr. Max arrived in the lab to find Julia gone. He suspected the worst. He suspected that she, like Tyrion before her, had disappeared.\
He checked the instruments, the readings, then he summoned the guard. \'93I\'92d like to see the video footage.\'94\
\'93What times?\'94\
\'93I\'92m interested in 6:43am in particular.\'94\
\'93I\'92m sorry Dr. Bernstein, but that portion is classified.\'94\
\'93I have clearance.\'94\
\'93Not the right kind of clearance.\'94\
\'93This has never been a problem before.\'94\
\'93The video footage from 6:40 to 7:00am is classified. I cannot show it to you. I can show you before, and I can show you after.\'94\
\'93I want to speak to Taggart.\'94\
\'93Taggart\'92s unavailable.\'94\
\'93I\'92d like to speak to Gates then.\'94\
\'93I can connect you to his office.\'94\
\'93Please.\'94\
The guard dialed a number on Max\'92s phone and spoke into the handset.\
Max was mystified \'97 this had never been a problem. Admittedly he hadn\'92t asked to see the video footage in the past, with the exception of Tyrion\'92s disappearance. But until now everyone had been very cooperative, they were on the same team. Something had changed.\
The guard handed the handset to him. \'93Gates\'92s office.\'94 he said, curtly.\
\'93General Gates?\'94\
\'93General Gates is in a meeting,\'94 said the voice on the other end. \'93Is there something I may assist you with?\'94\
\'93Yes, please, I\'92d like clearance to examine the video footage from 6:40 to 7:00am PST for the Winterfell project.\'94\
\'93I don\'92t have the authority to grant that clearance, but I can ask General Gates when he\'92s available to contact you.\'94\
\'93Yes, please do that.\'94\
\'93Is there anything else I can assist you with?\'94\
\'93No, just have him call me back.\'94\
The guard had left. He sat in his chair, at loose ends. He looked over at the trashcan and noticed a syringe. 
\i That\'92s odd
\i0 , he thought, 
\i They empty the trashcans every night. What is a syringe doing there?
\i0 \
He pulled the syringe out of the trashcan. A little bit of blood was on the tip of the needle. Not much of a sample, hardly any, but he suspected that he could run it through the analyzer.\
It didn\'92t take long. The blood was Julia\'92s, with a 98% confidence rating. If the sample was bigger he could be more sure, but he was sure enough \'97 who else\'92s blood could it be?\
The next portion was trickier: identifying the contents of the syringe. It was probably a sedative.\
He powered up the High Pressure Liquid Chromatagraphy (HPLC) machine. Nowadays they called it High 
\i Performance
\i0  Liquid Chromatagraphy, but he had never made the jump to the new term. The change had seemed somewhat gratuitous and inconsequential, and Max had little patience for that type of change.\
It took a few minutes for the HPLC to warm up. In the meantime he prepared the sample. There was only one drop left in the container, but it would be enough.\
When it came to identifying compounds, it was much easier if you had a good idea what you were looking for. That was pretty much true for most things in life. He looked at the HPLC output, at the peaks in the graph: it was definitely phenobarbital. Why would they drug her? Was she asleep when it happened. It was doubtful she could go anywhere on her own volition once drugged \'97 they must have carried her. It was probably more than one person \'97 it would probably take two to carry her comfortably, probably a third person for good measure. But what did they want from Julia?\
And how could they have gotten past the guards?\
Unless it was authorized. But why?\
He sat in his chair. He felt the excitement he felt when trying to solve a problem. The problem: what happened to Julia? The facts: she left between 6:40 and 7:00 a.m.. She had been drugged. He needed more pieces.\
Of course: the audio recordings! After Tyrion\'92s disappearance he had enabled the audio recordings. He never thought of them as proper instruments \'97 they merely measured accoustics in the range of 600 - 20,000 kHz, and there was scant useful measurement there. It had been an afterthought, something he had set up on his workstation \'97 he turned the mic on, and let it begin recording. He hadn\'92t even bothered to document it.\
He went to his workstation and opened the audio recording. Audio data tended to have a relatively small footprint compared to video, especially after compression had been applied. There was no need to rotate-out old audiofiles. Every sound that had occurred in the lab since Tyrion\'92s disappearance was there.\
He put on the headphones and played the recording. He played until he had heard Julia scream, \'93Help, HELP! Max! Taggart, ANYONE!\'94\
He couldn\'92t believe it. Gates was in on it. Gates! He had trusted Gates. Didn\'92t trust Taggart \'97 the man was too military for Max\'92s taste, very buttoned-up, very by-the-book. But where was Taggart? He didn\'92t know. Had Taggart been a part of it? He would suspect so, but yet there was a different colonel who had abducted Julia, not Taggart. That was another mystery.\
Scope creep. \'93Scope creep\'94 was when you started investigating one problem, and then a second problem manifested itself, and you began to investigate both problems. Scope creep usually resulted from undisciplined investigation. In other words, he was going to worry about Taggart later \'97 right now he\'92d focus solely on Julia. Where was Julia?\
Things had become serious. This was not his first rodeo; he had worked on many classified projects before, but this one was different: it had gone off the rails. Abducting? That never happened. Even quarantining Julia was an extreme measure.\
What to do? First, he could no longer trust Gates. And he couldn\'92t let Gates know that he knew that Julia had been kidnapped. So what would he do normally? He would document events leading up to Julia\'92s disappearance. And he would begin the procedure to wind down the project \'97 after the second death (\'93disappearance\'94 he reminded himself. He didn\'92t want to contemplate Julia\'92s death) the project would would be re-evaluated and most likely shut down.\
He spent the next few hours wrapping up the documentation. There was a protocol to follow when documenting a major mishap in a project \'97 certain forms to fill out, etc.... The process was tedious and mechanical. By noon he had finished, and while eating a BLT sandwich he contemplated his next move.\

\i I\'92m a research scientist; I\'92m not a secret agent. I\'92m not good at sneaking around or lying to people. I can\'92t pick locks or tap phone lines. That\'92s not true: I can pick simple locks. And, if I had a lineman\'92s handset, I could tap a phone line, too, heck, there are only two wires, and it\'92s analog, so it\'92s not that hard. And no special impedance requirements. But I\'92m way off track here. The point is that I need to find out what happened to Julia, and I don\'92t even know how to begin.
\i0 \
He imagined he was Liam Neeson in 
\i Taken
\i0 : \'93I have are a very particular set of skills. Skills I have acquired over a very long career.\'94 But what were were Dr. Max\'92s skills? He was a research scientist. He had had a long career \'97 he wasn\'92t a young post-doc anymore. In fact, he had kept his hands dirty much longer than the average researcher. And why not? He liked research. He liked pushing the boundaries of human knowledge, if only in a very small, very modest, way.\
So what was a researcher good at? Writing grant proposals was one thing he was good at, but he didn\'92t that was going to help finding Julia. What else? He was good at reviewing lots of data and picking out the tiny nuggets of truth buried therein.\
He reviewed the data again \'97 what was he missing? It was frustrating: all the instruments attached to Julia, and yet nothing of substance during her transformations: one second she was there, the next she wasn\'92t. No gamma bursts, no infrared afterglow, not even the shimmery special effects of the Star Trek transporter beam.\
He went over the numbers again. There had to be something. Heart rate within normal, blood pressure, too. He checked the EEGs over and over, but there were no major differences. Base vitals: height, weight.\
There must be something. He looked at the charts again. He took a glance at the time-lapse of the ultraviolet camera.\
\'93Oh my God,\'94 he thought to himself. \'93She\'92s absorbing radiation.\'94\
The photos showed the normal background radiation as a fuzzy cloud, with one exception: where Julia stood, there was a black silhouette. That wasn\'92t normal. Sometimes people were slightly darker \'97 they absorbed a small amount of the rays, but reflected most of it. Not with Julia. She absorbed everything. He tried to think of a substance that had those characteristics. Nothing. Nothing absorbed like that. She wasn\'92t dark gray \'97 she was midnight black.\
Geodesics. It might be the geodesics.\

\i In general relativity, a geodesic generalizes the notion of a \'93straight line\'94 to curved spacetime; In other words, a freely moving or falling particle always moves along a geodesic.
\i0 \
Yeah, they were tricky, the geodesics. They were why black holes were black. People thought that the reason that light couldn\'92t escape a black hole was because the gravitational pull of the black hole was so great that the escape velocity exceeded the speed of light, and thus light was trapped inside the black hole. But that wasn\'92t the reason. Light doesn\'92t have mass; escape velocity is not relevant. No, the reason that light was trapped was the geodesics: spacetime was so warped around the singularity of the black hole that all the geodesics pointed inward \'96 the was no \'93out\'94, there was only \'93further in\'94, no matter which way you were pointed.\
But geodesics affected 
\i all
\i0  frequencies, it wasn\'92t selective, and if Julia was absorbing all frequencies, then she would have appeared as black as midnight when Max looked at her, but that wasn\'92t the case. Something quite strange was going on. How could she absorb a specific band of high frequency light? And was there an upper limit? Was she absorbing X-rays? Gamma rays? What about neutrinos? Neutrinos were extremely stealthy particles \'97 they could pass through a billion miles of lead and not be absorbed. Was Julia absorbing neutrinos? That would be unheard of.\
He checked the specs on the camera. The frequencies it recorded was reasonably high \'97 it recorded up to ~10 PHz, which mean pretty far into the ultraviolet range, but not quite into the X-ray range. It\'92d be interesting to see if she was absorbing X-rays. If she was, God forbid she should break a bone because the hospital would be in for a big surprise when they tried to X-ray her arm: it would be like trying to X-ray a lead statue.\
How was she absorbing the radiation, and what was she doing with the energy?\
He glimpsed the security camera on the ceiling screen. He didn\'92t like it. He hadn\'92t minded it previously \'97 it was merely another instrument in the lab, one that although he didn\'92t have direct access to, they would accommodate his requests the few times he wanted to review footage. But things had changed, and they had refused his request and they allowed Julia to be taken and they were no longer on his side.\
That was the big disappointment: they were no longer on his side. Before today\'92s events he had always felt that he and his customers (usually the military) were on the same side. Sure, everyone had slightly different agendas, but everyone was working towards the same overarching goal. He trusted them. Now that trust was broken. He wasn\'92t sure what they were after, but they were doing things (kidnapping Julia) that he couldn\'92t agree with. And he didn\'92t like that damn camera watching him.\
He remembered when they first installed it. He had laughed and said, \'93I couldn\'92t imagine anything less interesting than watching a researcher in a lab.\'94\
He put on his polarized goggles, went over to the 0.5W 532nm laser. 
\i This is gonna be fun
\i0 , he thought to himself, 
\i We\'92re gonna blow the doors off that security camera
\i0 .\
He placed the laser at one end of the table. At the other end, he placed a mirror angled halfway between the videocam and the laser. He eyeballed the angles, and was fairly confident he got it right \'97 he had always been a decent pool player, and pool was all about angles. And then, when he was about to flick on the power switch to the laser and burn out the photovoltaic cell on the seucrity camera, he discovered he couldn\'92t do it: he didn\'92t like destroying things, even if they were inexpensive security cameras used by the people who kidnapped his friend. Besides, there was no point to doing it. What would it prove? He didn\'92t need the security camera off; he wasn\'92t doing anything he needed to keep secret. He had been filling out paperwork for the last few hours. And besides, had he burned-out the security camera they would have suspected him of something.\
He was in a funk on his drive home when his cellphone rang. 
\i What the heck? There\'92s no service out here
\i0 . He picked up the phone.\
\'93Dr. Max Bernstein?\'94 said the voice on the far end.\
\'93Yes, with whom am I speaking?\'94\
\'93You are speaking with a mutual friend of Julia Chou.\'94\
Max looked at his phone, looked at the number. The number \'930\'94 stared at him. Well, whoever called him was able to spoof the callerid number, which wasn\'92t very impressive, and was able to make calls where there were no cell towers, which was 
\i very
\i0  impressive.\
\'93May I be candid?\'94 said the voice on the far-end.\
Max was thrown off, but managed to say, \'93sure.\'94\
\'93Julia is currently trapped in the Princeton Plasma Physic Laboratory\'92s Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor. You must go there and set her free within the next 24 hours before a small thermonuclear fusion is started within the Tokamak which will destroy her.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93Go to New Jersey and free Julia!\'94\
\'93What the heck is she doing, I mean, how did she get trapped inside a Tokamak?\'94\
\'93She was lured there.\'94\
\'93Why doesn\'92t she just climb out?\'94\
\'93The magnetic field is constraining her.\'94\
\'93You mean it\'92s turned on?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\'93I have some bad news for you: if she\'92s in a live Tokamak, she\'92s dead already.\'94\
\'93If she were corporeal, yes, she would have been dead. But that\'92s not the case \'97 she\'92s incorporeal.\'94\
\'93She doesn\'92t have a body?\'94\
\'93No. She exists as a self-contained electromagnetic waveform. At least that\'92s what we suspect.\'94\
\'93Hmmm,\'94 said Max. That would make sense \'97 she never \'93disappeared\'94; instead, she underwent what was no doubt the most amazing phase change ever to happen on the planet Earth.\
\'93How did she transform 55kg of mass into pure energy without blowing a gigantic hole in the desert?\'94\
\'93That is something we are very curious about, and we don\'92t have an answer. In fact, we have very few answers. We don\'92t know what she is, we don\'92t know how she became what she is, and we don\'92t know the full extent of her abilities. But we strongly suspect that unless someone powers-down that Tokamak before fusion begins, she will be destroyed.\'94\
\'93How much time do we have?\'94\
\'93Very little I\'92m afraid. But if we are to save her, you must do exactly as I say. First, when you get home, call your sister in New York City. Tell her that your project has been halted and that you\'92re quite upset and that although you can\'92t talk about it you\'92d like to visit her. Let her know you\'92ll be arriving tomorrow. Then make your flight reservations. There is a United Airlines red- eye leaving from the airport at 11pm tonight; make a reservation for that flight. It will arrive at Newark at 5:15am. Tonight you will also make a reservation with the Carey Limousine Service to take you from Newark to Grand Central Station in Manhattan. You will also need to bring with you $400 dollars in cash, which I believe you have lying around your hourse.\'94\
Max was startled, \'93Why, yes, I do. I do have about four hundred dollars at home; I was planning to buy...\'94\
\'93That\'92s not relevant,\'94 said the voice. \'93When you pack, you must pack your old aviator glasses you wore in college but have never thrown out. When your plane lands, do 
\i not
\i0  turn on your cell phone. You must not turn on your cell phone for the remainder of the trip. When you exit the baggage claim area, you must put on the aviator glasses \'97 it\'92ll block your eyes and prevent face recognition software from identifying you. You must 
\i not
\i0  go to the Carey Limousine. Instead, you will go to the taxi depot and get into the first available cab. Now this is important: from this point on you must only use cash, not your credit card, and you must not remove your glasses. Our weapon is surprise. If they suspect that you\'92re attempting to free Julia, they will stop you, and quickly.\'94\
\'93Who is \'91they\'92?\'94\
\'93\'92They\'92 is a branch of the government attempting to destroy Julia at all costs.\'94\
\'93Why are they so worried about Julia?\'94\
\'93Julia has become much more than what she once was. They worry that she has become the most powerful weapon since the invention of the atomic bomb.\'94\
\'93Julia? A weapon? That\'92s silly.\'94\
\'93To me and you, yes, but not to them.\'94\
\'93So what do I do when I arrive at Newark airport?\'94\
\'93You will put on the aviator glasses. You will not turn on your cell phone. You will take the cab to Princeton. Specifically, you will ask him to take you to the Westin Princeton at Forrestal Village. Do not mention the Tokamak or the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory. The Westin Princeton is approximately two thousand feet from the Princeton Plasma Physics Lab, where the Tokamak is located. It will cost approximately $120. You will pay with cash.\'94\
The voice continued, \'93This is where it gets complicated. When the taxi driver drops you off, you will cross route 1 to Stellarator Road. You will follow Stellarator Road for approximately 1800 feet until you get to the Princeton Lab. You will be facing the rear of the building, which is where you want to be. You will see an emergency exit door to the left that is secured by a chain and a lock. The lock is old. You will find the key to the lock 20 feet away secreted underneath an old Campus Police phone box.\'94\
\'93Do they still have those, the police phone boxes?\'94\
\'93They are no longer working, but it costs money to tear anything down, so they\'92re still around for the time being. The advent of cell phones have made the campus police phone boxes largely obsolescent.\'94\
\'93And where exactly will the key be?\'94\
\'93We are not sure. It will be secreted somewhere inside the box or around the box, but we\'92re not exactly sure. Keep searching until you find it.\'94\
\'93Then what?\'94\
\'93Then you unlock the lock, unwind the chain, and enter the door. You will walk up until you get to the 2nd floor, at which point you will walk down the hall. You will see a little-used electrical panel to your left. Open it, it\'92s unlocked. On the top left you will see two 50-amp circuits. Turn them off. Count to thirty, slowly. Julia will be free by then. Turn them on.\'94\
\'93There\'92s a problem.\'94\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94\
\'93The electric field in a Tokamak requires much more than two 50-amp circuits. I don\'92t know what is connected to that particular circuit, but it\'92s definitely not the Tokamak.\'94\
\'93You are correct \'97 it\'92s not connected to the Tokamak. It\'92s connected to the control console of the Tokamak. If there\'92s no fusion, and the control console is powered off, then the Tokamak\'92s electromagnetic field is powered down unless there is active fusion; however, if there is active fusion we are too late and Julia is most likely dead.\'94\
\'93There\'92s not much time, is there?\'94\
\'93There is a reasonable chance that Julia may already be dead by the time you arrive at Princeton.\'94\
\'93Why me \'97 Why did you choose me?\'94\
\'93Several reasons, but the most significant is this: you have an intimate understanding that this project has taken astounding turns, you appreciate that Julia is in danger, and you value her enough to run the risk trying to save her.\'94\
Max grunted. He looked at the piece of paper upon which he had scribbled the instructions.\
The voice on the phone continued. \'93This conversation will terminate in 18 seconds. In 27 seconds you will crest a rise and your normal regular cellphone service will resume.\'94\
\'93How can I get in touch with you?\'94\
\'93You can\'92t. And most likely I won\'92t be able to get in touch with you again. Good luck, Max \'97 more than you know rides on your shoulders. You must succeed.\'94\
The call was terminated. Zero bars on his cell phone. Then he crested the rise, and he noticed he had 1 bar. His emails began to filter in. Another Starbucks promotion \'97 the banality of the connected life.\
When he arrived home, he called his sister and let her know he would be visiting her. He emailed work and let them know that he\'92d be taking an unscheduled vacation in NYC to visit his sister, but that they could reach him on his cell, also that he\'92d be checking email. His work would understand \'97 the project was a disaster at this point, and, now that the paperwork was filed, there wasn\'92t much they needed him to do except wind-down the project, which they\'92d probably order him to do in about a week or two. It wasn\'92t his first rodeo, although this project, without a doubt, was by far the most disastrous. Two lives lost? Unconscionable.\
He went online and made the flight reservations. Sure enough, there were seats available. Whose voice had been on the other end of the phone? There was something about it that reminded him of Gates, but he wasn\'92t sure. But whoever it was, it was someone who was wired in \'97 he seemed to know everything about everything. How did he know about the key in lockbox? Maybe when this was all over he\'92d find out.\
He placed his aviator glasses in his pocket. That way if they lost his luggage he\'92d still have the glasses. And he packed the cash in his wallet. It was a good thing he had a big wallet. He summoned a Lyft to take him to the airport.\
He checked in without event. He was hours early. There was nothing to do at the airport \'97 airports are boring places. Fortunately he brought his laptop, and he used the time to begin the response to an RFP (Request for Proposal) for an upcoming project: WiFi propagation in space. A straightforward project that wouldn\'92t involve human subjects, which was a relief. He didn\'92t think he could stomach working on another project with human subjects for a long, long time. WiFi propagation in space shouldn\'92t be a big deal anyway \'97 there was nothing to block the frequencies \'97 you could probably get a clear signal for hundreds of miles, thousands if using a directional antenna. The problem wasn\'92t the transmitter \'97 it was the receiver. You didn\'92t want stray gamma rays to blow out the receiver. You\'92d have to make it secure enough so it wouldn\'92t be affected by all the strange radiation in space. Earth was easy: the atmosphere filtered almost all the dangerous radiation. Earth had its own set of problems: interference everywhere. He was lucky to get a WiFi signal more than fifty feet from the base station.\
He looked up from his laptop and realized they were boarding the plane. He quickly put his laptop away, pulled out his boarding pass, and boarded.\
He tried to get some sleep, but without much success: he was too excited. He worked on the RFP some more \'97 that would put him to sleep. Sometimes the RFP was almost as much work as the project itself, which is why projects were expensive \'97 much of the expense was front-loaded. And, if you didn\'92t win the bid, the time and effort put into the RFP was lost.\
He nodded off while working on the RFP. He didn\'92t wake up until the pilot announced, \'93We are beginning our descent. Please take your seat and fasten your seat belt. And also make sure your seat back and folding trays are in their full upright position.\'94\
He put the laptop away. And sat back. Groggy. He didn\'92t function well on little sleep.\
He picked up his bag at baggage claim then, when about to exit, he put on his aviator glasses. He walked over to the cab depot and got in the first cab. He looked at the cab driver\'92s license, conspicuously mounted on the dashboard: Anand Singh. \'93Westin Princeton\'94.\
The cab driver, a turban-wearing bearded Sikh in his mid-fifties turned and gave him a hard look. \'93It\'92s a long ride. It will cost $120. Are you sure?\'94\
\'93I\'92m sure.\'94\
The Sikh sized up Dr. Max: professional, reasonably clean-cut for what no doubt was an overnight flight. Not a business man, maybe an academic. \'93Okay, I will take you to the Westin Princeton.\'94 He punched the hotel name into his GPS and began the trip.\
\'93I\'92m going to lay down for a little bit if that\'92s okay.\'94 said Dr. Max. Excitement notwithstanding, he needed sleep. He stretched out on the back seat. Within seconds he was out.}