{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 The two weeks flew by \'97 work kept her busy, and a good CEO is always busy. Sometimes work bled into the weekend, but she sequestered work to very specific time periods. It allowed her to be responsive and still preserve time for herself.\
The 40-hour work week did not apply to CEOs, financiers, shop owners, high-level executives, sales reps, scientists, or most professions it seemed. It was an illusion, an aspiration. She remembered the first-time she saw the book titled, \'93The 4-hour Work Week\'94 \'97 she almost burst out laughing. It was for sale in a bookstore in an airport. She looked around \'97 clearly the book\'92s target audience were harried businessmen and businesswomen hoping to magically free up time. It was similar to the tabloids in the supermarket check-out that touted, \'93The Ice Cream diet: eat all the ice cream you want and still lose weight!\'94 Both were con jobs that differed only in their sophistication and audience.\
She had cleared her schedule for all of Monday. She had been at work since 7am polishing some last minute details. At 8am sharp she received a call from the security desk saying someone was here to see her.\
She put everything away and went downstairs. She was surprised to find that the person waiting for her was not a man dressed like a Secret Service agent with black sunglasses. Instead, it was a young women dressed casually.\
\'93I\'92ll be your driver today,\'94 she said. They exited the building together; the van was parked in front.\
\'93Before we leave, I\'92ll need your cell phone, your tablet, your laptop, and any other electronic device you might have. You may want to turn them off before you give them to me \'97 they will most likely drain their batteries searching for a signal.\'94\
Julia turned her cellphone off and her laptop and gave both of them to the driver, who put them in a briefcase-sized black box.\
\'93Faraday cage?\'94 Julia asked.\
The driver nodded.\
\'93I must ask you one more time if there\'92s any electronic device that you have forgotten to give me. I must also remind you that failure to turn over an electronic device constitutes a violation of the Patriot Act, for which the penalty can be fine or imprisonment. Do I have all your electronic devices?\'94\
\'93You have all my electronic devices.\'94\
\'93Good.\'94 The drive slid open the side panel of the van. The van had two rows seats and no windows. And no magazines.\
Julia stepped inside, sat in the front row. There was an opaque barrier between the inside of the van and the driver in front. She could see nothing outside the van.\
She felt a sense of disorientation \'97 without her laptop, without her cell, without a window to look out, there was nothing to do. After five minutes she moved to the longer rear seat, stretched out, and took a nap.\
The sliding of the door woke her. \'93We\'92re here,\'94 announced the driver.\
Julia sat up. She took the mirror out of her purse and checked herself. She didn\'92t spend much time grooming, and she was spare when it came to make-up, but it was important not to be unkempt. No bed-hair. Good. She snapped the mirror shut, put it in her bag, and exited the van.\
They were in a large hangar. 
\i What\'92s with the hangars?
\i0  she thought to herself. 
\i It\'92s always a hangar.
\i0 \
\'93Follow me,\'94 said the driver. She walked to the door at the end of the hangar, waved a badge, and was buzzed in. Inside there was a checkpoint with two armed soldiers. One soldier was watching them, the other soldier was watching a screen.\
The driver put her hand on a glass panel. A green light flickered, and a soldier nodded.\
\'93You need to place your hands on the glass. Make sure your prints touch the surface. You might find it helpful to splay your fingers so that the thumbprints are visible.\'94\
Julia did as the driver instructed. She noticed that the glass was clear, free of fingerprints or smudges, probably some type of oleophobic material. The green light flickered, the soldier looked at his screen, then nodded.\
\'93Follow me,\'94 said the driver. They walked through a set of double doors into a corridor.\
\'93Do you need to use the restroom or would you like some water before we begin?\'94\
Julia shook her head.\
\'93Good, then I\'92ll introduce you to the lead scientist.\'94\
She opened a door to the right and began walking down another hallway, this one with large glass panels showing the lab to the right. Julia recognized her company\'92s equipment \'97 the logo was easily identifiable. A man in a lab coat was adjusting the dials on one of the pieces of equipment.\
The driver knocked on the door, and then opened it. \'93Dr. Bernstein? Ms. Chou is here to see you.\'94\
The scientist, though in his mid-forties, had a boyishness to him. He held up his hand, \'93I\'92ll be with you in a second \'97 I just need to make one setting.\'94\
He carefully set the dial, then walked, almost bounced, over to Julia.\
\'93Hi,\'94 he said, \'93You can call me Max. We don\'92t need need to be formal here. Sorry to keep you waiting, but if I hadn\'92t made that adjustment right then, I would have had to re-start the experiment, which means I would have lost sixteen hours.\'94\
The driver interrupted, \'93Dr. Bernstein, please buzz me when you have finished with Ms. Chou so that I may escort her to the next interview. And, this applies to you, too, Ms. Chou: please do not discuss any classified information in my presence.\'94\
\'93Of course, of course,\'94 said Dr. Bernstein. \'93You may call me Max.\'94\
The driver nodded and then left the room.\
\'93I always tell her to call me Max, and she insists on calling me Dr. Bernstein,\'94 said Max. \'93The military is such an odd organization, so formal. And hierarchical.\'94\
\'93I must confess I\'92m pleased to meet you,\'94 said Julia. \'93I\'92ve read some of your papers. The one published in 
\i Nature
\i0  was particularly impressive, as was the one in 
\i Scientific American
\i0 . Some of the more technical aspects were beyond me I\'92m sorry to say.\'94\
\'93You\'92ve read my papers?\'94 He noticeably brightened. \'93We scientists spend so much time researching, and then writing papers, but sometimes we wonder if they have any impact outside our rather small community. So much work, but the audience is maybe twenty, maybe a hundred other scientists at most. At times it feels like stuffing messages in a bottle and throwing them out into the ocean hoping that someone, somewhere, will read it and find it useful.\'94\
Julia smiled. She had a genuine interest in her employees. Although she no longer had time to interview every new hire, she made sure to review their resumes. And she had a soft spot for scientists and engineers \'97 her father had been an engineer, and she too had been one at the beginning of her career. Scientists in some ways were the easiest to review because publishing was an important aspect of being a scientist. She wished that engineers published more \'97 it enforced a certain clarity of thinking that was too often lacking in engineering circles. Scholarly publishing, that is. In the computer science realm there were too many publications that fell into the \'93tabloid-sensationalism\'94 category (\'93Why Google is scared to death of this new networking technology!\'94) \'97 heavy on opinion, light on facts, and weak on logic.\
Among scientists, however, rigor was prized, and a good article often had an extremely high information density. Dr. Bernstein\'92s papers were among the best.\
\'93What are you working on?\'94 she asked.\
\'93Oh yes, the project\'94 he said. \'93Well, the short version is this: we\'92re using long cycle low-power electromagnetic fields to shape sympathetic receptors in the human brain.\'94\
\'93Sympathetic?\'94\
\'93Sympathetic to high frequency electromagnetic waves.\'94\
\'93Not low frequency?\'94\
He smiled. \'93The human skull is too small to fit an antenna that handles low frequency waves. And by low frequency, I mean any wavelength under 10GHz. Look, let\'92s say we wanted to listen to AM Radio, which is 535kHz at the bottom of the scale, and let\'92s say we wanted to have a 1/8 length antenna \'97 it would need to be over 200 feet! We can\'92t fit that in a human skull. Let\'92s try something more reasonable \'97 let\'92s try a cell phone antenna. Typically the low-end of the cell phone spectrum is 700MHz, which means the antenna would need to be about two inches \'97 that\'92s something you can easily fit inside a cell phone case. Actually, outside the case would be better, but now we\'92re getting way off topic.\'94\
She asked, \'93What affects the length of the antenna?\'94\
\'93Oh yes, sorry, let me backtrack. I was talking about frequency, which is inversely proportional to the wavelength, and that\'92s what\'92s important \'97 the wavelength. The longer the wavelength, the longer your antenna needs to be to pick it up.\'94\
He was on a roll: \'93Short wavelengths get blocked fairly easily. That\'92s a generalization, but it\'92s a good rule of thumb. That\'92s one of the reasons why 5GHz WiFi doesn\'92t travel through walls as well as 2.4GHz. If you dig deep, you find it\'92s more complicated, and it depends on the property of the material that\'92s blocking, but like I said, it\'92s a good rule of thumb.\'94\
\'93Long radio waves are almost unblockable\'94. The difficulty with them is that they have low bandwidth. Let\'92s take the nuclear subs, for example. They drag a wire behind them that\'92s a couple of miles long. That\'92s so they can pick up an 8kHz signal \'97 the nuclear launch codes. It\'92ll take a couple of minutes to transmit the entire code, but who cares? As long as it gets through then the missiles get launched. And you can\'92t block the signal.\'94\
\'93As a side note: I hope that those antennae \'97 they can also be called \'91antennas\'92, but I always like to use the Latin plural. \'91Antenna\'92 is a first declension noun. Did I mention I took four years of Latin at St. Ignatius Prep? Yes, a Jew in a Jesuit school \'97 I wasn\'92t the first, and I won\'92t be the last. \'91Hybrid vigor\'92 I call it, though from an intellectual standpoint than a genetic one.\'94\
She found herself completely drawn in by him, his enthusiasm, his leap from topic to topic, his wealth of knowledge.\
\'93So where was I? Oh yes, the long antennae on nuclear subs \'97 I hope they never are used. Good engineering, bad use-case. But no sense in getting worked up over things outside my control.\'94\
\'93We were talking about antennae and wavelengths. Now don\'92t get me wrong, the human brain can detect wavelengths of many sorts. Let\'92s take hearing for example: we can hear wavelengths from about 20Hz to about 21kHz if you\'92re a kid. At my age, my hearing only goes up to 12kHz, so I can\'92t hear high-pitched whines. Note that we can \'91sense\'92 frequencies lower than 20Hz \'97 we can feel the rumble \'97 but we don\'92t \'91hear\'92 them. But sound waves, even though they have a frequency and a wavelength, aren\'92t electromagnetic \'97 instead, they fall under the more classic definition: a wave caused by displacement of mass, which happens to be air in the case of soundwaves.\'94\
\'93But our senses aren\'92t limited to sound \'97 we can can also see, and light is a good example of electromagnetic radiation. Light has a really short wavelength \'97 in the hundreds of nanometers. And the frequency? 430\'96750 terahertz. That\'92s right, 
\i terahertz
\i0 . So the frequency of visible light will cycle about ten thousand times more frequently than, say, a 5GHz WiFi signal. So we don\'92t need a long antenna at all. They can be small enough to fit inside a specialized human cell.\'94\
\'93Where was I? Oh yes, the antennae. We want people to be able to perceive radiation, but not something they can already see \'97 if they have eyes, there\'92s no purpose installing an antenna what will see the visible spectrum inside the skull \'97 it doesn\'92t buy them anything. Plus light has a hard time penetrating the skull \'97 they wouldn\'92t see much at all.\'94\
\'93We can\'92t go to a low frequency, because we can\'92t stick a 2-inch rod inside someone\'92s skull. In fact, we don\'92t want to do any drilling or surgery at all if we can help it. So that forces our hand: small antennae, high frequencies.\'94\
\'93Max, what was that machine you were working on before I came in?\'94\
\'93Machine? Oh yes, that wasn\'92t a machine 
\i per se
\i0 : it\'92s the console to a machine. A modified MRI. It\'92s what we use to create the antennae.\'94\
\'93Create the antennae?\'94\
\'93We arrange the cells. We delicately push and pull them until they line up correctly. The ganglions and axions, mostly the ganglions. Salt water and everything \'97 make a good antenna when they\'92re lined up exactly right.\'94\
\'93You inject salt water?\'94\
\'93Heavens, no. I meant to say that we are salt water. When you cry, the tears are salty. Curiously they\'92re always the same concentration of salt. Salty enough to conduct electricity decently, which is a requirement for antennae. Your body\'92s cells, they are all pretty salty, about as salty as the ocean.\'94\
\'93So when you create these antennae, where do you place them?\'94\
He turned to her: \'93Now 
\i that
\i0  is a very good question.\'94\
He says, \'93In the beginning we had no idea \'97 we thought we\'92d create them in the frontal lobes \'97 the cerebral cortex \'97 and that was weird. You could tell the behavior changed. Then we began to branch out: the thalamus, the hippocampus, the amygdalae\'94\
\'93You did this on humans?\'94\
\'93Goodness no! We\'92re scientists, not lunatics. We were testing on mice. Mice are not always the best subjects when it comes to these types of experiments though because they can never describe what they\'92re thinking or sensing. We extrapolate from their behavior.\'94\
\'93And what did you find?\'94\
\'93Honestly we found very little. The behavior changed, but only slightly. Sometimes they could do the maze faster, sometimes they\'92d refuse to do it. But these were subtle changes, and not always consistent.\'94\
\'93Then what happened?\'94\
\'93We were at a dead-end. We had been stuck for six months. It was time to wrap things up. We spoke to our sponsor and told them we weren\'92t making progress, and that it was time to wrap-up the project.\'94\
\'93Early termination?\'94\
He looked at her, \'93I guess from a company standpoint you want to keep the money coming in, but we weren\'92t getting anywhere.\'94\
\'93You did the right thing,\'94 she reassured him. \'93We\'92re in this business for the long haul; we want to be straight shooters. Besides, there are always other projects to bid on.\'94\
\'93You\'92re the CEO \'97 don\'92t you already know all this?\'94\
\'93The Federal Division is different than the company\'92s other business units,\'94 Julia said. \'93Most of the projects are classified, so although we see the financials, they\'92re rolled-up, not broken out by project. Sometimes we might see a codename for a project, usually not.\'94\
\'93This project\'92s name was \'91Winterfell\'92\'94\
\'93We never saw that name in the financials.\'94\
\'93I wouldn\'92t think so,\'94 said Dr. Bernstein. \'93I\'92ve worked on several DHS projects, and this is one of the most secretive.\'94\
\'93So what happened when you suggested an early project termination?\'94\
\'93They surprised us. They asked if they procured us a live human subject if we could continue the research.\'94\
\'93We pointed out that although a live human subject would help move the project forward, there were ethical considerations that precluded us from using human subjects.\'94\
\'93Then what happened?\'94\
\'93They introduced us to the test subject. He was a very interesting young man. Although he wasn\'92t a scientist, he understood the biological and electromagnetic underpinnings of our work. He also understood the risks, and yet he was completely willing to go ahead anyway.\'94\
Dr. Bernstein\'92s voice sunk to a low whisper, \'93Julia, I must tell you that there\'92s something strange about this project \'97 I get the feeling they \'97 the sponsor \'97 isn\'92t telling us everything. This research I\'92m doing \'97 it has no value. No military value, that is, and no medicinal value. I\'92ve done a lot of these projects, and usually I get a sense of what they\'92re looking for, what they\'92re trying to do. Not this one. This project, from my standpoint, is a spaghetti-on-the-wall project \'97 throw a lot of spaghetti on the wall, and see what sticks. It\'92s basic research. But they\'92re much too interested in this. There\'92s something more in play here, and for the life of me I can\'92t figure out what it is. But I can tell you this: they want it very badly, and they\'92re not telling us what they\'92re looking for.\'94\
Julia asked, \'93Do you think the subject knows what they\'92re looking for?\'94\
\'93He knows more than me, of that I am sure. I don\'92t know how much they told him, but they\'92ve told him enough so that he\'92s willing to take big risks. Look, even though it\'92s not invasive surgery, pushing parts of your brain around is dangerous stuff \'97 a lot can go wrong, terribly wrong, very quickly. And he knows all this, and he\'92s willing to do it. I just don\'92t get it.\'94\
She became serious, \'93Is this the young man that died?\'94\
\'93It\'92s the man who disappeared. We don\'92t know if he died. One minute he was in the room, the next minute he was gone.\'94\
\'93Is it possible he left out the back door or something similar?\'94\
\'93You saw how locked-down they have this place: it would be next-to-impossible to sneak out undetected.\'94\
\'93Do you think that they \'91pretended\'92 he disappeared and spirited him away?\'94\
\'93If that\'92s the case, I don\'92t see what it buys them \'97 it\'92s brought the project to a screeching halt and opened the possibility of shutting us down, which was the last thing they wanted. Plus the instruments had very strange readings leading up to the moment he disappeared.\'94\
\'93The instruments?\'94\
\'93Mostly health monitor stuff: pulse rate, blood pressure, breathing, EKG, EEG.\'94\
\'93Which readings were off?\'94\
\'93The pulse rate & blood pressure were normal, and so was his EKG, but his EEG readings were like nothing I\'92ve seen before.\'94\
\'93Were you in the room when this was happening?\'94\
\'93No, I was in the next room.\'94\
\'93And then?\'94\
\'93And then all the readings went flat. I thought maybe a cable fell loose or something, so I was fiddling with the workstation for about a minute. But I couldn\'92t find anything wrong, so I walked to the other room to find that he was gone.\'94\
\'93Gone?\'94\
\'93The plank was empty. The sensors were still there, but they were resting on the plank, not attached to anything. The way the sensors were laid out \'97 it made it seemed like he vanished rather than disconnecting each sensor and then leaving.\'94\
\'93May I see the room?\'94\
\'93Yes, of course. This was the room I was in when it happened.\'94\
He walked to the far end of the room to another door with a sign on it that said, \'93Danger. Strong Magnetic Field. No Pacemakers, Metallic Implants, or Neurostimulators.\'94\
He turned to her and said, \'93You don\'92t have a pacemaker, do you?\'94\
\'93No.\'94\
\'93And nothing ferro-magnetic? Nothing that can become a projectile?\'94\
\'93Not on my clothing, but maybe I should leave my handbag here.\'94\
She placed her handbag on one of the lab chairs and followed him through the door through a short six-foot corridor at the end of which was another door. He opened it.\
\'93Here we are.\'94\
It was a spare room with an MRI: a large torus with a plank leading into it. Julia was reminded of Dunkin\'92 Donuts, and the thought made her smile.\
\'93He was on the plank, of course. Or, more precisely, he 
\i wasn\'92t
\i0  on the plank when I came back in.\'94\
\'93If I understand correctly, it is here that the antennae are created.\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\'93Is one antenna created during each session, or more?\'94\
\'93It depends. There\'92s a limitation of the number of adjustments in one setting. Sometimes you only need to adjust one or two things to make an antenna, sometimes you need a dozen. During a given session we limit the number of adjustments to one hundred for several reasons, the most important of which is a buffer limitation, but there\'92s also a re-calibration requirement.\'94\
\'93So if I\'92m doing the math right, you can make about ten antenna per session.\'94\
\'93That\'92s more-or-less accurate. In this case it we had just finished creating the third antenna when he disappeared.\'94\
\'93He had three functioning antennas, I mean, antennae?\'94\
\'93Oh my, no \'97 he had 147 antennae.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93This was his fifteenth session.\'94\
\'93In how many days?\'94\
\'93In eight days. We had been doing two sessions per day, followed by a multi-modal stress test to make sure that there were no ill effects.\'94\
\'93Isn\'92t that rather aggressive?\'94\
\'93It was 
\i extremely
\i0  aggressive. I balked. I said it wasn\'92t safe, we don\'92t know the consequences of this type of cerebral manipulation, that we should go slowly and be careful \'97 I said one antenna per week, max. And you know what happened? They went non-linear.\'94\
Julia smiled at this reference: whereas most people would say, \'93they went ballistic\'94, electrical engineers have a tendency to say, \'93they went non-linear\'94, a reference to an electrical system whose response to an input is out of proportion.\
\'93But I wouldn\'92t budge. That colonel, Taggart, didn\'92t like me saying no. You could tell that he\'92s used to people saying yes. I even spoke with our counsel, who backed me 100%, said that I didn\'92t have to do it if I felt it would pose undue risk.\'94\
\'93Funny, the counsel never told me about that.\'94\
\'93She couldn\'92t tell you \'97 she had to get clearance, too. Even when she got clearance they wouldn\'92t tell her anything about the project. I could only talk in generalities. \'91They want me to perform an untested procedure on another human being that will most likely leave him with permanent brain damage, possibly kill him.\'92 She said that I was in my rights to refuse; in fact, anything other than refusing would constitute criminal negligence, and expose me and the company to criminal prosecution.\'94\
\'93So you refused?\'94\
\'93I stuck to my guns: I refused. And then they went to court and compelled me to perform the procedure.\'94\
\'93I thought Janice told you that you shouldn\'92t do the procedure.\'94\
\'93That\'92s what she said on Monday, but on Tuesday she called me and said I had to go ahead with it. She said she had been served a court order.\'94\
\'93From which court?\'94\
\'93FISC. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.\'94\
\'93But this project has 
\i nothing
\i0  to do with surveillance. It\'92s a biomed project.\'94\
\'93I know; I couldn\'92t figure out how FISC became involved \'97 did they decide they needed to branch out to new markets? That the NSA eavesdropping wasn\'92t enough?\'94\
Dr. Max Bernstein laughed at his joke, and Julia thought that the laugh, which was little more than an asthmatic snort, was somehow quite endearing. She found herself laughing, too.\
\'93Anyway, we can appeal the order, but you need a special lawyer to argue before that particular court. The attorneys need some type of approval or certification \'97 I didn\'92t understand the details, and the reasoning seemed fairly contorted and unnatural. Made me glad I went into Science instead of Law.\'94\
\'93I went back and forth with Janice. I even considered resigning from the company. I knew if I went ahead with the cerebral manipulation it wouldn\'92t turn out well. And it didn\'92t turn out well \'97 though it didn\'92t turn out well in a completely unexpected way.\'94\
\'93I insisted on thorough cerebral analysis after each session. We found some research, but we had to do most of it on our own \'97 some of the easiest were the senses: visual, auditory, smell, taste, touch. And we dove down into each one. For example, to determine that he lost no sense of touch, we needed to do an almost complete scan of his body, first with a hot object, then with a cold object, then with a moist object, then with a feathery object.\'94\
\'93Then there was kinesthesia: balance, use of limbs, tossing a ball against the wall and catching it. Writing your name with your left hand, picking up a sock with your toes.\
\'93Emotions were very tricky, we never got a good handle on those. We\'92d give him a battery of tests which was basically asking one question, \'91How do you feel right now?\'92 I was never happy with those tests.\'94\
\'93Then there were the run-of-the-mill tests \'97 was he still breathing regularly? Was his heart beating? Could he still fall asleep? Did his digestion work properly?\'94\
\'93Did you find any aberrations as the study progressed?\'94\
\'93Not really. Sure, some measurements varied over the course of the 8 days, but those variations were either not statistically significant or within normal range.\'94\
\'93So there was no hint that anything could go wrong leading up to his disappearance?\'94\
\'93Not really. I could show you the spreadsheets if you want \'97 it\'92s a lot of raw data, and I haven\'92t put it together with nice charts or anything, but you\'92re welcome to look them over.\'94\
\'93Yes, I\'92d be interested if that\'92s okay.\'94\
\'93Sure.\'94\
He led her out of the MRI room and back to the original lab. He sat her down in front of his computer. He fiddled around and brought up several spreadsheets.\
\'93Here you go \'97 you can sit at my desk and go through them. I\'92m going to go back to adjust the equipment.\'94\
\'93Why bother adjusting? The subject is gone, right? Isn\'92t the project on hold?\'94\
\'93I\'92m testing the mice. I\'92m not working on humans, only mice. In my humble opinion we should have spent years working with mice, then maybe with primates, as much as that breaks my heart, and only at the very end work with humans. There\'92s a reason that pharma companies take so long to bring new drugs to market \'97 there\'92s a lot of safeguards in place to prevent people getting unnecessarily hurt. Some would argue that there are too many safeguards, too much red tape, but I always err on the side of safety. Anyway, that\'92s a topic for another day.\'94\
He fiddled with the knobs and looked at the console while she explored the spreadsheet. She was good with numbers, and she had a good enough background in medicine/biology to understand when something wasn\'92t right. The numbers looked mostly normal. There were some spikes, but no outliers.\
\'93Max?\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94\
\'93When he disappeared, you were putting an antenna in his brain, right?\'94\
\'93Yes. Definitely. In fact we had finished.\'94\
\'93Where were you placing the antenna?\'94\
\'93Funny you should ask \'97 we were working on a part of his brain that we hadn\'92t yet worked on \'97 it was the limbic system.\'94\
\'93Max, I\'92m not an anatomist, but if I remember correctly, some consider the term \'91limbic system\'92 to be somewhat outdated \'97 it\'92s not really a system but a collection of disparate structures.\'94\
\'93You\'92re right: the function of, say, the hippocampus, which consolidates memories, is very different than the amygdala, which is related to a number of emotional processes.\'94\
\'93So in which structure of the limbic system was the antenna being added?\'94\
\'93The amygdala.\'94\
Julia wondered if that was significant.\
\'93I want to understand everything about the process,\'94 she said. \'93I want to understand from start to finish. For example, when the subject arrived \'97 by the way, what was his name?\'94\
\'93He said his name was \'91Tyrion\'92, but I suspect that wasn\'92t his real name.\'94\
\'93I suspect you\'92re right. When he arrived, what was the first machine you hooked him up to?\'94\
\'93The first thing we needed was a topographical map of his brain \'97 we needed to know every detail of the layout so that we knew where to place the antennae. So we used the MRI to map his brain over the course of an hour. The granularity of the MRI is quite fine, so the the dataset was huge.\'94\
\'93There\'92s no danger using the MRI, is there?\'94\
\'93No danger, unless you have a pacemaker or something like that.\'94\
\'93Then I want you to make a topographical map of my brain.\'94\
\'93Really?\'94\
\'93Yes, I want to understand the process, not only from a high-level, abstract viewpoint, but also from a detailed down-in-the-trenches viewpoint. I want to experience as closely as possible what Tyrion went through.\'94\
Although Julia was not an expert in the field to the same degree as Max, she had a background in STEM, with an emphasis on biology, medicine, and computers, so she was quite familiar with the terrain.\
There was a point when her career was on a trajectory to become a scientist at a time when there were few women scientists, but like many of her sister scientists, she was sidetracked into a sales position.\
She had few illusions about why she was chosen for sales: she was a woman, and although she was not drop-dead gorgeous, she was not unattractive either, and all her customers were men, and they liked being in her company, and they listened to the pitches, the presentations.\
But here was the kicker: she was a great sales rep. She knew her customers, she knew their business, and she knew her products cold. Her looks may have gotten her in the door, but her performance was what made her stellar.\
Performance. She had originally thought that sales was glamorous, but she quickly realized it wasn\'92t. Sales was an endless stream of tedious chores. She remembered one time a customer was furious \'97\'a0he had spent $1M on a system but was missing the cables needed to make it work. The factory swore they had shipped the cables. She had managed to get the tracking number, trace it via the shipper, track it to the customer\'92s shipping and receiving, retrieved the name of the person who signed the package, and discovered that the box of cables had been sitting under that person\'92s desk for the last week. The customer was both embarrassed and pleased. Admittedly, it was grunt work, but that\'92s what made customers stick with you \'96\'a0they trusted you to make it work, make it good.\
She knew the product line, too. That helped. One time there was a demo unit in the customer\'92s lab, and engineer was having a hard time getting his code to make the API calls properly \'97 he couldn\'92t read data from the demo unit. She sat next to him and reviewed his code and modified the flags passed to the `configure` script. After 15 minutes of working alongside the engineer they managed to pull data from the instrument.\
She remembered the engineer. After she had helped fix his program he looked at her differently, as if she were a dog who suddenly began speaking in impeccable English. Up to that moment he had been fairly hostile at the several meetings they had attended together, and it was clear he was suspicious of sales reps. He would make snide comments, \'93Yeah, sure\'94 or \'93I\'92d like to see that happen\'94 when she discussed the features of her products. But after those 15 minutes, the world changed. His manager later spoke to her, \'93I don\'92t know what you did, but he\'92s not blocking the purchase. He says your products are at least as good as our current vendors. He\'92s pretty happy.\'94\
The engineer may have even had a crush on her, but he never asked her out or acted unprofessionally.\
And that was another tricky topic: customer crushes. That was one case where it would have been easier to have been a man. She was often asked out by her clients, usually older, often divorced. She toyed with the idea of wearing a decoy wedding ring, but decided not to \'97 it was fundamentally dishonest, and she was bad at lying \'97\'a0it was too much work. It was easier to say, \'93I\'92m not available.\'94 She felt bad when she saw the disappointment in their eyes, although curiously it was sometimes tinged with relief.\
She got along well with all her customers. She liked them, and they liked her. She even stayed in touch with the ones who switched to her competitors, and sometimes it paid off they came back, but that wasn\'92t the reason she stayed in touch. She stayed in touch because she genuinely liked them.\
She had spent six years as a sales rep, and in the last two years she declined two offers to become a sales manager. \'93I can\'92t afford the pay cut,\'94 she half-joked.\
Finally she acquiesced, and that was the beginning of her rapid ascent through the company.\
That was probably her best quality: she was kind. And she liked people. And she had the capacity to work really, really hard.\
Harder, apparently, than Dr. Max, who after a couple of hours walking her through the charts, the machines, the procedures, said, \'93Julia, it\'92s 8pm. I\'92m tired. I usually head home at 5pm, maybe 6pm or even 7pm if the work is exciting, but this is as long as I\'92ve stayed at work in years, and I need my rest.\'94\
Julia looked up from the console, \'93What? Oh, Max, I\'92m sorry \'97 I didn\'92t mean to keep you. It\'92s been such a long time since I\'92ve worked with equipment, and I\'92ve forgotten how exciting it can be. Please, go home. Rest. Is it okay if I stay here and continue to review?\'94\
\'93Of course. I was told you have full access to the project, so look at whatever you need to. There\'92s no internet of course, so you can\'92t check email or anything, but whatever\'92s on the local fileserver is available.\'94\
\'93I\'92ll be careful. I may still be here in the morning when you get in.\'94\
Max was about to laugh when he realized she was serious.\
She didn\'92t hear him close the door \'97 she was too engrossed in the research. It was fascinating.\
Earlier in the evening Dr. Max had taken a full MRI of her brain, and showed her where the limbic system was, where the hippocampus was, the amygdala, the hypothalamus, the olfactory bulbs. The resolution was wonderful.\
He had also showed her how to program the instrument that \'93draws\'94 the antenna in the brain. Funny, things hadn\'92t changed much since her days in working with the equipment \'97 you just needed to know C and some API routines and plug in coordinates and you were off to the races.\
She reviewed his lab notes \'97 wonderful old-school notebooks with grid patterns. He had beautiful handwriting, Dr. Max. And his drawings were easy-to-understand. There was a clariy of thought that came through the pages when you read his notes \'97 you sensed the broad sweep of his project and where he was taking it.\
She could also tell that he was more affected by Tyrion\'92s disappearance than he let on. The last entry in the notebook was a simple \'93Tyrion\'94 along with drawings of tears along the margin of the notebook. Poor Tyrion, poor Max.\
She decided she would go through a dry run of everything leading up to Tyrion\'92s disappearance. She\'92d use her brain scan instead of his, but go through it. First, she calculated the antenna placement in her amygdala. Then she wrote the code that pushed-and-pulled the ganglions and axions into place, then she downloaded the code into the MRI, and then walked into the MRI room, lay on the platform, and hooked up the sensors to herself. She turned everything on, and then lay their for 15 minutes, then got up and pulled the sensors off.\
She still had no idea what happened. The dry-run hadn\'92t accomplished anything, nothing at all.\

\i Why a dry run? Why not the real thing?
\i0 \
She thought about that for a second \'97 why not the real thing? She could do it. It was just a small adjustment. Minute. Microscopic. Not invasive, just a pull here, a push there. It couldn\'92t be safer. All she had to do was flip up the manual off switch next to the MRI.\
She thought about it. It felt exhilarating, like she was on the brink of a precipice looking down. She remembered when she was eight, and her friend had dared her to run naked through the theater class with nothing on except a mask. Her friend had double-dared her, knowing she wouldn\'92t do. But she did do it. She took off her clothes, put on the bird-mask, and ran through the theater class naked. Then Julia and her friend hid in the closet while Julia dressed. And then, when the excitement died down and everyone had returned to the theater class, they snuck out the back door. Julia\'92s friend was surprised she had done it, but no one was more surprised than Julia herself.\
Julia remembered the feeling she had the moment before she had taken her clothes off \'97 she felt she was on the brink of a precipice, looking down.\
She flipped up the switch, the MRI was now on. She went through the procedure a second time, hooking up the electrodes, lying on the platform, listening to the far-off distant clanging that the MRI made while it was moving around.\
She lay there. And lay there. And nothing. Nothing happened, nothing was different.\
She took the electrodes off. That was it? All that excitement for nothing?\
She blushed. That was childish and irresponsible to try an experimental procedure on herself with no one around. You can do crazy things when you\'92re an eight-year-old girl, but it\'92s unbecoming of a CEO in her late forties.\
She\'92d tell Dr. Max when he got in next morning. She\'92d tell him, and he\'92d be incredulous and give her a look that said, \'93What were you thinking?\'94, and she\'92d have nothing to say. It was a poorly thought out idea, and completely out of character. Oh well.\
She decided she\'92d give herself the battery of tests to make sure her brain was functioning. Some of the tests required a second person, so she skipped those ones. Her eyes seemed fine, hearing was good, taste, smell, touch \'97 all good. She could read a paragraph of text, she could watch a YouTube video of a baby sloth trying to eat peanut butter and feel an emotional response (\'93how cute!\'94). She did a sudoku puzzle. Everything was fine.\
She wondered if there was anything to this. Was this some high-priced snake oil we were selling the government? What benefit could there possibly be to having tiny antennas made out of squishy brain matter? And did they hold their shapes? Of course not, the brain isn\'92t hard like bone, it\'92s squishy. A quick turn of the head to see something outside the window would twist the shape of the antenna. It was silly. She went through it, and nothing had happened.\
She became aware she was beginning to get sleepy. She checked the clock on the computer console: 4:26 am. She could get a couple of hours of sleep before Max came in. She looked around \'97 the only place to stretch out was the MRI machine. Why not? In her early years she had spent many a night sleeping in the lab, and she was lucky in that she rarely if ever had trouble falling asleep. She lay down on the MRI and within a minute had drifted off to sleep.\
She never heard the far-off distant clanging of the MRI.\
}