{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AmericanTypewriter;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \'93Sir, we are here. Sir, we are here,\'94 he woke up to the driver shaking him gently.\
Dr. Max grunted, got up. and gathered his belongings. He counted $140 from his wallet. \'93Here you go. Thank you very much.\'94 The Sikh driver made a slight bow, got back in his cab.\
Even though it was 7am, Route 1 was already busy. It would be so much easier in a cab.\
\'93Wait,\'94 said Max. \'93Could you please take me across Route 1?\'94\
The Sikh paused, shrugged his shoulders, and asked, \'93on the meter?\'94\
\'93Yes, on the meter.\'94\
\'93Okay.\'94 He flipped on the meter.\
He got in the back seat and directed the driver to cross Route 1 and then make a right on Stellarator road. Max saw the lab building at the end of the road.\
\'93Right here, you can let me off right here. Here\'92s $5\'94\
The Sikh driver looked at him. \'93Too short \'97 I will not charge you.\'94\
\'93Are you sure?\'94\
\'93I am sure. Good luck my friend.\'94\
Max paused. \'93Why thank you! And good luck to you, too.\'94\
Max got out of the car and grabbed his luggage. The driver drove off, and Max waved goodbye to him. Then Max walked to the rear door that was chained shut. He found the police call box, but he couldn\'92t find the key \'97 it was too dark.\

\i The problem with an hours worth of sleep is that it leaves you more disoriented than having no sleep at all.
\i0 \
He needed more light. He pulled out his cellphone but it was off.\

\i Should have turned it on when I got off the plane.
\i0 \
He turned it on and enabled the cellphone\'92s flashlight \'97 he found the key! Suddenly his cellphone beeped, a text message: \'93I wish you hadn\'92t turned on the cell phone. They will almost certainly find you. Please turn off this cellphone and do your best to hide.\'94\

\i God I am such an idiot. That\'92s why my cellphone was off \'97 so I couldn\'92t be tracked. And now I blew it. Darn.
\i0 \
He grabbed the key, unlocked the chain, entered the lab, and locked the chain behind him. He climbed the stairs to the second floor and walked down the hallway looking for the circuit panel on his left. He could hear footsteps coming from the other direction. 
\i Darn
\i0 , he thought to himself. There was a door to his right: he tried the handle: it opened. He went inside and closed the door behind him. And then he flicked on the light.\
He couldn\'92t believe his luck.\
He was in a Faraday Cage, a room completely covered in a mesh of conductive material. It prevented electromagnetic radiation of wavelength smaller than the distance between the wires of the mesh. And, judging by the fine nature of the mesh, it attenuated very high frequencies. He was almost invisible in this room, at least from an electromagnetic standpoint.\
He wondered what purpose the room had. He remembered the biggest Faraday cage he had ever seen \'97 it was the size of an airplane hanger, and it was on location at a defense contractor who was working on the GPS system. They needed a place to test their GPS products without interfering with the flights on the nearby airport (LAX) (how quickly the airline industry came to depend on GPS).\
But what if they scanned with an infra-red scope? And then he saw the most beautiful thing: a stack of blankets in the corner. Perfect! If he got under the blankets they wouldn\'92t see his infrared signature. 
\i Darn it I forgot to turn off my cell phone
\i0 . He turned off his cell phone, crawled under the blankets, and waited.\
He heard footsteps moving up and down the hall. And one time he heard the door open and the light flick on, but then the door closed again. While listening to the footsteps he fell asleep.\
He had troubled dreams, and when he woke he was not sure at first where he was.\

\i What the hell? Where am I? Oh right: I must rescue Julia \'97 how could I have fallen asleep?
\i0 \
He rubbed his eyes. He got out from under the blankets, quietly. Maybe Julia was still alive. All he needed to do was walk to the end of the hall until he found the circuit panel on the left, and the switch off the two fifty-amp circuits.\
He got up and listened to the door. Nothing. He quietly opened the door and peeked outside: no one to his left, no one to his right. He walked down the hall; he could see the circuit panel at the end. He walked towards and opened it, and, when he was about to flick the two fifty-amp circuits, a voice behind him said, \'93I wouldn\'92t do that if I were you, Dr. Bernstein.\'94\
He turned around. A middle aged police office was behind him. A 
\i big
\i0  middle-aged police officer. Dr. Max briefly considered using his jiu-jitsu training, and then discarded that notion: it would not go well in the short term, and certainly not in the long term: assaulting a police officer was a felony.\
He pondered the myth of martial arts. When he first began to study martial arts, he assumed that it would turn him into a deadly fighting machine, capable of defeating foes of all sizes. But that\'92s not what martial arts was about. Martial Arts didn\'92t give you speed if you didn\'92t have speed, didn\'92t give you strength if you didn\'92t have strength. Instead, it gave you an advantage when you were fighting someone roughly your size and strength. But it didn\'92t mean you could beat Goliath. That\'92s why there were so many weight classes in wrestling: size (and size as a proxy of strength) made a big difference. Less so in boxing, but still room enough for eleven weight classes. Sure, there was the occasional story of a boxer who boxed above his weight class, but those were rarities, and then never boxed more than two weight classes anyway. This policeman was easily five boxing weight classes above him. Even with his jiu jitsu training it would have been an uphill battle, and this cop looked like he was no stranger to physical combat. Max would have gotten his ass kicked.\
\'93Could you please raise your hands above your head,\'94 said the policeman. It was less a question than a statement.\
Dr. Max complied. In the meantime, the cop radioed for backup.\
\'93Excuse me, sir,\'94 said Dr. Max. \'93What am I being charged with?\'94\
\'93We\'92ll go with trespassing to start. Unless you have permission to be in this building, which is highly unlikely.\'94\
Max pursed his lips. He had blown it. He wouldn\'92t be able to free Julia. Maybe he could ask.\
\'93Sir, would you mind if I powered off two circuits.\'94\
The police officer looked at him: \'93Please don\'92t move until my partner arrives.\'94\

\i \'94Please\'94. And yet he managed to say it in a way that meant, \'93don\'92t even think of trying that, or you\'92ll regret the day you were born.\'94
\i0 \
Max stood there until he heard footsteps behind him. The officer said, \'93Please place your hands behind you. You are under arrest. You will be handcuffed. You have the right to remain silent and refuse to answer questions. Anything you say may be used against you in a court of law. You have the right to consult an attorney before speaking to the police and to have an attorney present during questioning now or in the future. If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed for you before any questioning if you wish.\'94\
The Miranda warnings \'97 he had heard them so often on TV, and never did he imagine that they would be read to him.\
The cop behind him was still fumbling with the handcuffs. \'93The damn mechanism is stuck.\'94\
\'93Do you have any questions for me?\'94 Max asked.\
The middle-aged cop laughed. \'93Nah, we don\'92t have any questions for you. We\'92re just gonna hold you for a while for trespassing, then we\'92ll probably drop the charges and let you go.\'94\
The cop behind him said, \'93Chris, these handcuffs aren\'92t working, can I borrow your pair?\'94\
\'93Sure,\'94 said the middle-aged cop, and reached back, pulled his handcuffs from his belt, and passed it to his partner.\
\'93Thanks Chris\'94\
Suddenly an explosion rocked the building.\
\'93Aww, shit,\'94 said the middle-aged cop. \'93We gotta exit the building right now.\'94 Then he looked at Max, \'93You: get out of the building, go to the squad car, put yourself in the seat, and wait for us.\'94\
Max was walking down the hallway when he heard the cops behind him, \'93Did you handcuff him?\'94 \'93Didn\'92t have time.\'94 \'93We\'92ll worry about that later.\'94\
Then he heard the cop behind him talking into his radio, \'9310-20 at Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, We heard what we believe to be an explosion. 10-38 send ambulance 10-70 send fire.\'94\
\'9310-4\'94 the radio squawked.\
Dr. Max briefly considered running back to the panel and switching off the circuit breaker, but then he looked at the two officers and reconsidered. It would not go well.\
He followed the signs to the exit and found himself near the police call box. It rang. He picked it up. \'93Hello?\'94\
A familiar voice answered. \'93Hello Dr. Max. I am deeply sorry you weren\'92t able to free Julia.\'94\
Max felt terrible. He was afraid to ask, but he did anyway, \'93Did Julia make it? Is she dead?\'94\
\'93I am not sure if she\'92s alive or dead; we won\'92t know until the Tokamak has been powered down and she has been freed.\'94\
\'93But what about the explosion? I heard an explosion in the building. Was that your doing?\'94\
\'93The explosion wasn\'92t my doing, and it did not power down that electromagnetic field that is trapping Julia.\'94\
\'93It wasn\'92t your doing?\'94\
\'93No.\'94\
\'93Then what was it?\'94\
\'93I believe it was bad luck, or, from our perspective, good luck. They\'92ve been pulling in additional power lines in order to enable thermonuclear fusion. During the bring-up of the new power, the load was too great and one of the transformers at the electric substation exploded.\'94\
\'93Are you sure it wasn\'92t your doing?\'94\
\'93I was just as surprised as you were. Surprised in a good way. It has given us more time to free Julia, and every second counts.\'94\
\'93Can you call me on my cell phone?\'94\
\'93That would be too dangerous, I\'92m afraid.\'94\
\'93But you sent me that text.\'94\
\'93That text was out-of-band; it never went through the cell tower. I can\'92t communicate with you via cellphone voice because it would require passing through a cell tower, and that would show our hand.\'94\
\'93What is our hand? That is, what\'92s the plan?\'94\
There was a long pause at the other end of the line. \'93Candidly, I\'92m unsure of what to do next. We don\'92t have a plan. Our resources are meager. There\'92s just you and me.\'94\
He could hear the fire engines and ambulances in the distance. They were coming closer.\
\'93Didn\'92t the substation fire cut the power to Julia\'92s jail?\'94\
\'93Unfortunately, no. The fire was contained to a small portion of the substation. Substations are designed with the assumption that there will be a fire, and the are laid out in such a way to mitigate the chance of a fire spreading to the other transformers.\'94\
\'93Should I go back in?\'94\
\'93No. Too dangerous. It wouldn\'92t make sense to lose you to save Julia.\'94\
\'93But isn\'92t Julia something more than human? Isn\'92t that why we\'92re saving her?\'94\
\'93No, we are trying to save her precisely because she\'92s human. And that\'92s why we don\'92t want to lose you. Or do anything reckless like setting off an explosion.\'94\
\'93How much time did the substation fire buy us?\'94\
\'93Even with all the resources brought to bear, it will take seven days to for them to replace the transformer. Once the transformer is replaced, though, they will be able to inject deuterium-tritium gas into the Tokamak and ignite the plasma, which will destroy Julia. There is good news; however. There is one more thing we can try, though it is a long shot.\'94\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94\
\'93It is best that I not tell you everything, but I will tell you what you need to know. There was a United States Air Force Cold War system of radar, computer, and communications systems that included ballistic missile detection radars.\'94\
\'93You mean the Ballistic Missile Early Warning System?\'94\
\'93Precisely. Of particular interest are the AN/FPS-50 Radar Sets. They are massive. And they haven\'92t been used in thirty-five years. Let us hope they still work.\'94\
\'93What do I need to do?\'94\
\'93You need to go to Fairbanks, Alaska. Once you\'92re there, I\'92ll give you your remaining set of instructions.\'94\
\'93Do I need to wear my aviator glasses and not use my cell phone?\'94\
\'93No, those subterfuges are no longer necessary \'97 we have lost the element of surprise, and attempting to maintain it is pointless and makes us look silly.\'94\
\'93We don\'92t want to look silly, do we?\'94\
\'93Certainly not.\'94\
Max wasn\'92t sure, but he suspected he heard a note of sarcasm in the voice.\
\'93Won\'92t I try to be stopped?\'94\
\'93Not if you go to Alaska. There is something there that they are not aware of. Also, other events have happened in the world that are ... distracting the attention which you might otherwise receive.\'94\
\'93What sort of events?\'94\
\'93North Korea has managed to launch a missile that can reach the US Mainland. Also, Iran appears to have collected enough fissile material to produce an atomic bomb with the power of ten Hiroshimas. Finally, there is an outbreak in the Congo of a new virus which appears to trigger meningitis-like symptoms, has quick onset, and appears to have both high morbidity and high mortality.\'94\
\'93What do those things have to do with us?\'94\
\'93We\'92re up against a very powerful computer. Think of it as a chess champion, but multiplied a thousand-fold. It guesses the probabilities of various outcomes, but it doesn\'92t have the resources to do an exhaustive search. Instead, it prunes the probabilities that seem unlikely or remote. In other words, it doesn\'92t worry about the things that probably won\'92t happen; instead, it focuses on the things that might happen. Right now you fall into the former category \'97 things it doesn\'92t need to worry about. It\'92s not worried about you. In its mind, you already blew your chance.\'94\
\'93Well, that\'92s a fairly damning assessment.\'94\
\'93The truth is often damning. But our situation plays to our advantage. For example, you may leave your cell phone on. You may travel in plain sight.\'94\
\'93So you can contact me by cell? I can hang up this phone?\'94\
\'93That is the exception: I cannot contact you via cell phone. Also, don\'92t look up anything online related to the Early Warning System or the radar sets. Is that understood?\'94\
\'93Understood.\'94\
\'93You will need to book a flight to Fairbanks, Alaska. From there you will rent a car and travel South West via Route 4. In approximately 80 miles you will come to the Ballistic Missile Early Warning System site. There will be a minimal security presence there to keep out vandals. Say that you\'92re with a Department of Homeland Security and provide any identification they ask. They\'92re a private security company, and they want to keep out the teenagers. If you appear legitimate, they will let you in. They will not check with the DoHS.\'94\
\'93There are 3 large radar dishes. These are massive dishes, weighing 1,500 tons. That\'92s right: tons, not pounds. You will drive to the nearest one, which is mounted in building 57. The building number is unimportant.\'94\
You will need to point the radar to 2.1525\'94 above the horizon. And to 146.125\'ba. You will need to set the frequence of the radar to exactly 5180.2425 MHz. At approximately 18:25 hours UTC in three days you will begin transmitting. You will continue to transmit for 25 minutes. By that time we will know if we have succeeded or not.\'94\
Max did a calculation in his head: that would be approximately 11:25 in the morning, local time.\
\'93I know what you\'92re trying to do,\'94 said Dr. Max. \'93You\'92re transmitting at the resonating frequency of the electromagnetic bottle, aren\'92t you?\'94\
The other end of the phone was silent.\
\'93You\'92re hoping that the transmitted frequency, even at such a long range, will be able to set up an oscillation that will slowly increase over the course of several minutes, ultimately rupturing the magnetic field that\'92s keep Julia captive. Let me ask you a question: what happens if fusion has already begun? We can\'92t afford to rupture the magnetic field of a live thermonuclear fusion reaction \'97 the best-case scenario would be that it only destroys a few buildings and kills dozens of people. Worst-case: we\'92d effectively be detonating a thermonuclear warhead in downtown Princeton.\'94\
\'93You are correct: if fusion has begun, we cannot afford to rupture the magnetic field. When you depart Fairbanks in the early morning, I will give you a go/no go signal via text message. If it\'92s \'91no\'92, it means that Fusion will have already begun, or that Julia has been freed via some other mechanism.\'94\
\'93You may hang up now. We will not communicate until you leave from Fairbanks in the early morning in 3 days. Good luck Max.\'94\
The phone went dead. Max stared at the handset. That voice, so familiar, yet not quite recognizable.\
He walked back to the Princeton Westin. He found the outlets in the lobby, and plugged in his laptop and cellphone, and made arrangements to fly to Alaska.\
Max wasn\'92t fond of travel, but he reached a truce of sorts: he brought his laptop, did work for a few hours while he sat in the uncomfortable chair. He tried to make sure that every flight he was on had WiFi, which made working much easier. He was lucky: Alaska Airlines had WiFi on their flights. But the itinerary was a disaster: John F. Kennedy Airport to SeaTac, SeaTac to Anchorage, Anchorage to Fairbanks. A lot of time in the planes, and almost as much time in the airports (thanks to a 7-hour layover in Anchorage). Ugh.\
He had never thought of himself as a hero, not as in the save-someone\'92s-life hero. He was more of the help-someone-fix-their-printer hero, or connect-the-TV-to-everything-properly hero. But here he was, flying to Fairbanks in what was admittedly a long shot, trying to save someone\'92s life. Not just anyone\'92s life, but the life of the highly-thought-of CEO of his company. A week ago he would never have guessed he would be in this position.\
And she was a highly-thought-of CEO. From without, sure \'97 she had been profiled in the industry trade magazines, and the company financials were well above average. But she was highly-thought-of from within as well: although prior to this week he hadn\'92t directly worked with her directly, he knew people who had, and they all respected her and liked her, which was no mean feat.\
He was still angry at himself for turning on the cell phone. Maybe if instead he had used a flashlight, or a lighter, Julia would be free right now. He had been so sleepy! He hadn\'92t been able to think straight \'97 he was in autopilot mode when he turned on the cellphone. But if he had been more cogent Julia would be free, albeit as a being of pure energy. Would such a being still be Julia? Would she be able to transform back and forth at will?\

\i Regrets serve little purpose. Learn from your mistakes, but don\'92t beat yourself up about them.
\i0 \
And what had he done wrong? He had turned on his cellphone. How could he have done better? He should have placed his cellphone in a place that was difficult to access, And put a stickie on it that read, \'93Don\'92t turn on cellphone\'94. Yeah, a stickie would have been a simple and effective solution. But that was academic \'97 he no longer needed to fly under the radar.\
The first flight, to Seattle Tacoma (SeaTac), was uneventful. The second flight was delayed 3 hours, but given that he had a 7 hour layover in Anchorage, he still made the connection with plenty of time. The last leg of the journey was made in a very small plane, with maybe twenty passengers. It was after midnight when he touched down. The car rental desks had already closed, so he took a cab to the Regency Fairbanks Hotel, a hotel whose most compelling characteristic was the low price of its single room.\
The hotel was modest and clean. It was a step above a hostel \'97 each room had their own bathroom, but it was a shower, not a tub, and the shower stall was plastic rather than tiled. Didn\'92t matter: plastic was as efficient as tile when it came to preventing water leaks, especially when one didn\'92t have to worry about crumbling grout.\
He slept late \'97 it was 8am, and the sun had already risen when he woke. He opened the curtains and had to admit that the mountains in the background made a very impressive view. He also noticed that it was cold, and apparently the management decided to save money by keeping the heat as low as possible. Easily remedied: he\'92d wear an undershirt as well as a sweater.\
He opened his suitcase and knew he was not equipped for this weather \'97 he needed to do some shopping before he set off. He stopped in a clothing store which seemed to cater to locals, and after spending a couple of hundred dollars came out with enough to keep him warm for the car-ride down and for sleeping in an abandoned building with no heating. And water, too. And some jerky \'97 when hungry, jerky works in a pinch.\
Dressed in his new clothes, he took a cab back to the airport where he rented a 4WD and headed down Route 3 to the Ballistic Missile Early Warning System site. The drive was uneventful. He saw the massive radio dishes from miles away, and there was a security guard at the checkpoint.\
The interaction was minimal: The security guard asked for his license, took a picture of it with his cellphone, and asked what he was doing here.\
\'93I\'92m doing some maintenance on Building 57; I hope to be out of here within a day.\'94\
\'93Be careful: the buildings are old and not up to code.\'94\
\'93I\'92ll be careful,\'94 said Max.\
The security guard let him through, and Max drove to the closest building with a massive radio dish on top. The great thing about working in an abandoned building: easy parking. He parked in front and panicked when the door was locked, only to discover that it had been stuck, and he merely needed to provide enough force to open it.\

\i Congratulations, first challenge successfully overcome.
\i0 \
He went into the building. Although it was a 2 story building from the outside, he could see that inside it was one floor with a double-high ceiling. In spite of the fair amount of dust, everything looked pristine. He felt a level of excitement in him as he hunted for the manuals. The seventies was a high point in computer documentation: for one thing, it was written for engineers, not for the lay user, so it could afford to be both concise and precise. Secondly, printing was difficult, so more effort was put into making sure everything was correct before sending it to the printer. Also the old documentation reminded him of his youth, when he started out: he remembered many late nights poring over the manuals like some ancient wizard studying a foreign text, hoping to find the nugget of information he needed.\
And there it was: a rack of three ring binders, labelled. He opened them up. The Courier typeface, in all its glory. Courier \'97 the working man\'92s typeface. These manuals weren\'92t typeset: they were typed and xeroxed (was that still a word?). And the writing: so exact. And every once in a while a very simple line diagram. He felt transported to an earlier era, to his youth, when there was no Internet, when the manuals were the sole source of information, and thus incredibly precious.\
He began with the \'93Operator\'92s Manual\'94. Ah yes, this seemed a good start. He skimmed through it. Then he jumped to the \'93Hardware Reference\'94, and then the \'93Troubleshooting and Diagnostics\'94.\
He noticed the light had become dim. The sun was setting. He stopped for a minute to watch the beautiful Alaskan horizon. He walked over to the wall and switched on the lights.\
He couldn\'92t believe his luck \'97 the lights still worked!\
And hours flew by as he read the manuals and made notations in the margins.\

\i Only in pencil. I wouldn\'92t want to permanently mark these.
\i0 \
He noticed he could see his breath.\

\i The lights still work, but the heating is shot
\i0 .\
There was a couch against the wall. He was tired, and propped himself on the couch while re-reading the \'93Operator\'92s Manual\'94. He was asleep within minutes.\
He stirred, noticing the sun had risen (just barely). He knew how everything worked: he had spent the previous evening absorbing information, and the night processing information. He believed that sleeping was the best way to process information, at least for him.\
He pulled out the crumpled piece of paper with the scribbled notes that he had taken and checked the clock: in one hour and twenty-five minutes he\'92d begin transmitting. He hoped the old beast still worked.\
The most surprising thing about the radar system was that it was manually controlled. He didn\'92t punch numbers into a console; instead, he adjusted an intricate series of gears and pulleys to adjust the pitch and then a different set of pulleys and gears to adjust the yaw.\
And then there were the micro-adjustments, which involved a much more delicate set of instruments. He was surprised how accurate the equipment was given its vintage, but he shouldn\'92t have been. It was a personal bias, he realized: if it was hooked up to a computer, it was accurate, but if it was mechanical, it wasn\'92t as accurate. But that assumption was flawed: most computers were merely a front-end to a mechanical system, and the engineering required to design accurate components had been worked out in the mechanical engineering discipline decades ago. The radar was accurate. The only difficulty he had was converting the decimal portion to degrees, minutes, and seconds, which was fairly trivial.\
He checked his phone. 1 bar. No texts.\
He powered up the radar. 
\i I can\'92t believe this stuff still works!
\i0  Ten minutes until he could start transmitting. Five minutes. Three minutes. One minute.\
He flipped the transmission switch. He could hear a faint hum in the building. He waited. If everything went according to plan, Julia would be free in another ten minutes.\
The humming stopped. The lights went out, but fortunately there was enough ambient light in the room to see what was happening. His phone beeped, a text message: \'93Get out of there now. Do not go to your car. We have been discovered. Head north by northwest until you find the cabin at the top of the hill. Turn off this cell phone. Good luck.\'94\
He ran out the building and he could see the Security Guard running towards him shouting in his cell phone. Max turned and ran. While Max was running, he checked the time on his cell phone and the compass direction: fortunately it was a clear sky, and the sun was almost directly due South, so he could orient fairly well to get out of the complex.\
The Security Guard was falling further behind. Either he wasn\'92t in as good a shape as Dr. Max, or he didn\'92t have as much adrenaline. Probably the latter.\
The complex was enormous. Max continued to run, as best he could in the heavy winter boots, at a reasonable clip. Then a slower clip. Then a brisk walk. He turned around. The security guard had given up and turned back.\
He came to the perimeter. The entire facility was surrounded by a tall chain link fence. He tried climbing it, but his feet couldn\'92t get enough purchase. He looked around for something he could use as a step ladder. Nothing: no boxes, no crates, no barrels.\
He heard a sound in the distance. A vehicle. It was coming closer.\
A bullhorn blared, \'93Stay where you are and put your hands above your head.\'94\
Blind panic. That\'92s what he felt: blind panic. He didn\'92t know how he did it, but he pulled himself up the chain link. He had no idea he had that strength in him. When he got to the top, he hauled himself over and dropped to the other side.\
\'93Stop. Stay where you are.\'94\
He didn\'92t stay where he was. He ran. North by Northwest. He was winded, so he didn\'92t run very fast. They probably had a snowmobile somewhere. They were going to chase him on the snowmobile, and likely catch him. He couldn\'92t move very fast on foot.\
The sky, which was clear but a few minutes ago, was beginning to mass thunderheads. This could get ugly. He remembered the Jack London story, \'93To Build a Fire\'94, about a man who froze to death in the Alaskan Wilderness because he had been careless. Max wasn\'92t careless. Max was very careful \'97 it was wired into his DNA.\
But time and chance had conspired to put him in a dangerous situation: being chased into an Alaskan blizzard with but the barest of navigational instruments.\
If it came to it, he\'92d turn on his cellphone and navigate with that: better to be captured than to be dead.\
The wind began to blow, stirring up the snow. This was a good thing \'97 it was covering his tracks. Only a little, but maybe enough.\
The cabin hadn\'92t seemed far, but it seemed like it wasn\'92t getting closer, either. He trudged and trudged as the clouds massed larger and the sky grew darker. The cabin was within his field of view, but only barely \'97 he couldn\'92t see far, certainly not to the horizon.\
He thought he heard the snowmobile behind him, but he wasn\'92t sure, and it may have been the wind.\
He jumped when he heard the first thunderbolt. And the skies opened up.\
He couldn\'92t believe the amount of snow that was coming down. Alaska was not for the faint of heart. So much snow. He could no longer see the cabin. He could barely see twenty feet ahead of him. He held his cellphone in his right hand, thinking, 
\i if I don\'92t find the cabin soon I\'92m gonna turn around and navigate to the base and turn myself in.
\i0 \
And the cabin came into view. He knocked on the door. He knocked again. No answer.\
The door was unlocked, so he let himself in only to find himself staring down the twin barrels of a shotgun.\
\'93And just who might you be, stranger?\'94 said the man holding the gun.\
Max raised his hands above his head. \'93My name is Dr. Max Bernstein, and I\'92m a scientist.\'94\
\'93And what brings you to these parts?\'94\
\'93I\'92m trying to help a friend out.\'94\
\'93And is that why you decided to let yourself into my place?\'94\
\'93No, I was being chased. I\'92m sorry about that. I knocked. I knocked twice. I don\'92t just let myself in. But it was snowing outside and I was worried. I\'92m truly sorry.\'94\
\'93You were being chased.\'94\
\'93I was being chased by the guards at the Federal Base.\'94\
\'93And why were they chasing you?\'94\
\'93I was using the radar dish to send a signal to New Jersey where my friend is imprisoned. We were hoping that the ...\'94\
\'93Whoa, slow down there: who is this \'91we\'92 that you refer to? You got another frien\'92 out there?\'94\
\'93No, not at all. Just me. The friend was trying to help me free the other friend, a girl.\'94\
\'93Is the girl your frien\'92?\'94\
\'93Yeah, she\'92s my friend, too. Well, I mean I work for her. Well, I mean I work for the guy who works for a guy who works for a guy who works for her.\'94\
\'93I don\'92t work for nobody. Who\'92s your other frien\'92? You work for him, too?\'94\
\'93Nah, I don\'92t work for him. I don\'92t even know who he is. I never met him, and only spoke to him on the phone twice.\'94\
\'93You spoke to him on the phone twice and already he\'92s your frien\'92? You pretty good at makin\'92 frien\'92s, ain\'92t ya?\'94\
\'93Well I guess he\'92s not really my friend.\'94\
\'93Why did you call him your frien\'92 then?\'94\
\'93He had some good ideas to help free my other friend, the one who is trapped in New Jersey.\'94\
\'93Trapped, huh? I know a lot about traps.\'94\
Max looked around. The cabin was small, but there were fur pelts everywhere.\
\'93Are you a trapper? A furrier?\'94\
\'93Let\'92s not worry about me for the time bein\'92. Let\'92s talk about you, and your frien\'92 who\'92s trapped.\'94\
\'93Oh yes, she\'92s trapped in New Jersey. In a Tokamak.\'94\
\'93What\'92s a Tokamak?\'94\
\'93It\'92s a big donut. As big as this cabin. Maybe a little bigger.\'94\
\'93Go on.\'94\
\'93It has her trapped with an electromagnetic field. There are no bars holding her there. It\'92s just electromagnetic field. Maybe it\'92s difficult to understand.\'94\
\'93Be careful what you think you know, stranger. You think because I\'92m in this remote cabin in Alaska I can\'92t understand things like \'91lectricity or magnetism, but let me tell you something: I look out at night and I can see the Northern Lights and that is electricity in all her glory. And when I need to somewhere I\'92ve never been before I study that compass hard and know which way the magnet goes. See this fur? You rub it too much and then touch something, you get a big spark. You know what your problem is? You\'92re prejudiced. Whoa, don\'92t talk \'97 I\'92m talking now, you\'92ll get your chance in a second, but right now you\'92re in my cabin, and you\'92re gonna listen to me. You\'92re prejudiced. You\'92re highly educated \'97 I can tell, and there\'92s nothing wrong with education \'97 and it\'92s clear that you hang out with other people who are educated like yourself, but you think when people aren\'92t educated they must be dumb. Whoa, I said I\'92m talking now \'97 you\'92ll get your chance. You think they\'92re dumb. You know why you\'92re so upset right now? It\'92s because you know it\'92s the truth, and you\'92re ashamed. You probably tell yourself that we\'92re all God\'92s creatures, all equal in his eyes, but deep down inside you know we\'92re all different, and that you\'92re one of the smart ones. And the rest of us? Not so smart, maybe on the dumb side.\'94\
Max was turning red in the face, \'93That\'92s not true!\'94\
\'93You see how angry you are? I got a shotgun pointed at you, and all you can think about is how you\'92ve been wronged. Lemme tell you something, if I told you that you had two heads, would you be upset? Of course not \'97 it\'92s not true. But if I tell you you\'92re prejudiced, and that you think people with less education are not so smart, you get angry. Why? Because it\'92s true. Listen and learn, son. Next time someone tells you something you don\'92t like to hear, take a long hard look inside yourself. You might not like what you find, but it\'92ll be the truth. And sometimes the truth is ugly.\'94\
Max sputtered and said, \'93I have always treated everyone with dignity.\'94\
\'93Funny, I didn\'92t say nuthin\'92 about whether you treated people with dignity or not, but you seem to think otherwise. Maybe it\'92s easier to think about dignity than to think about prejudice. Now you come in and close the door behind you \'97 it\'92s cold outside, and this cabin doesn\'92t keep the heat well when the door\'92s open.\'94\
The man waved Max in and pointed to a chair. The man was short, wiry, and hairy: long beard, long unkempt hair, lots of gray.\
Max sat down. The man carefully placed the shotgun in the gunrack on the side. \'93It wasn\'92t loaded; I wasn\'92t gonna use it. I don\'92t like shootin\'92 people. Don\'92t like it one bit. You never forget, you know? It never leaves you, shootin\'92 someone.\'94\
The man was quiet for a moment.\
\'93So what you gonna do about your frien\'92, the one who\'92s trapped?\'94\
\'93I dunno.\'94\
\'93What do you mean, \'91I dunno\'92? You gotta plan, dontcha?\'94\
\'93Not really,\'94 said Max, slumping in his chair. \'93I\'92m really tired.\'94\
\'93You\'92re bleeding, too,\'94 said the wiry man. \'93Your gloves are cut open, and you\'92re bleeding from there.\'94\
Max looked at his hands. The guy was right: his gloves had been cut open, and his hands were cut, too. There was a fair amount of blood. It looked nasty.\
\'93We gotta clean that up. We don\'92t have running water out here, but here\'92s a basin, and here\'92s a jug of water. Be sparing with the water. Remember: I gotta lug that jar from the stream.\'94\
Max washed his hand in the basin \'97 only one hand was cut, fortunately his left one. Long gash, not terribly deep.\
\'93I don\'92t mean to be ungrateful, but the water \'97 is it sterile? Is it safe to wash wounds and drink?\'94\
\'93That water? It\'92s the finest water there is on account of being right next to the Fairbank\'92s largest sewage outflow, and they\'92re pretty good about treatin\'92 their water unless there has been a snowstorm or rainstorm recently.\'94\
The wiry man smiled, \'93I\'92m just messin\'92 with ya! Water\'92s fine \'97 I drop the pills in them. Fine for drinking, wound-cleanin\'92. You clean out that wound yet? \'91Cause we gotta disinfect it next. And I won\'92t lie: this is gonna hurt.\'94\
The man took Max\'92s left hand, pulled back his coat and cuff, and took a look at the wound \'97 it was still bleeding, though it had slowed down. He reached around and grabbed a clear bottle from the table, held Max\'92s hand over the basin, and gently poured a small amount of clear liquid onto Max\'92s hand.\'94\
It hurt like hell, but Max wasn\'92t going to give the man the satisfaction. He didn\'92t make a sound.\
\'93I\'92m sorry that you had to use your liquor to disinfect my hand.\'94\
The man chuckled. \'93It\'92d be a stretch to call this stuff, \'91liquor\'92, and I don\'92t drink it myself anyways \'97 I keep it around for guests.\'94\
He grabbed an old rag and tore a strip off. \'93Don\'92t worry, it\'92s clean.\'94 And wrapped it around Max\'92s hand. Then he got some duct tape and taped the rag in place.\
\'93You can use med tape, but duct tape works just as good, and good rag is better\'92n gauze for stanchin\'92 blood.\'94\
Max looked at his hand: the bandage was snug but not tight. He wondered if his host had a lot of experience binding wounds.\
As if reading his mind, the host said, \'93Ya need to know basic first aid out here. A lot of things happen, might be days before you can get to a doctor, and if you\'92re not careful things can get out of hand. That wound looks clean, should be okay. If you\'92re the kind that likes to check with a doctor, by all means check with a doctor when you\'92re in town.\'94\
\'93My name is Max, by the way,\'94 said Max, holding out his uninjured hand.\
\'93Why, that\'92s mighty polite of you, Max. The name\'92s Hunter. Pleasure to make your acquaintance.\'94\
\'93I must rescue Julia.\'94\
\'93Is that her name? Sounds nice, \'91Julia\'92. Lemme tell you how it works here in Alaska: we\'92re not gonna do anything while that storm is ragin\'92. Now, if you have the notion of walkin\'92 back to the road and gettin\'92 in your car, I ain\'92t gonna stand in your way, but know this: you\'92re probably gonna die. I know these parts pretty well, and I wouldn\'92t go outside right now if I didn\'92t have to.\'94\
\'93What can we do?\'94\
\'93We wait. Gotta let the storm take its course. Worryin\'92 about it isn\'92t gonna make it happen faster. Things move at their own speed here.\'94\
\'93How long will the storm last?\'94\
\'93Dunno. Probably all night, clear up in the morning, but sometimes they take a couple of days to run their course. Ya never know. Listen, why dontcha take a rest on the pile of skins I have over there. Don\'92t worry \'97 no fleas on the furs, they\'92re clean. And we can talk about what you\'92re gonna do when the storm lets up.\'94\
Max lay down on the furs \'97 he was surprised how comfortable and warm they were. The only thing he didn\'92t like was when he rested his face on them some of the hairs would go up his nose. He sneezed.\
\'93Watch out for the nose,\'94 said Hunter, \'93the hairs\'92ll get right up there, make ya sneeze they will.\'94\
Max muttered a small thank you to the animals who sacrificed their skins so that he could rest in such a comfortable bed, and a comfortable bed it was \'97 he hadn\'92t remembered a bed so comfortable. His last thought was that he\'92d close his eyes for a second while he gathered his strength.\
When he woke up the sun was streaming through the windows. \'93Did I fall asleep?\'94 asked Max.\
\'93Ya fell asleep fast and slept hard.\'94 Hunter passed him a mug of black coffee. \'93No milk I\'92m afraid,\'94 he said. \'93Milk doesn\'92t keep too well. No sugar either. Just coffee, black.\'94\
\'93Thank you,\'94 said Max. The coffee was strong.\
\'93Ya thought about rescuin\'92 your frien\'92?\'94\
\'93Yeah, I think I might try to get back to New Jersey and somehow get her out of that trap. I just don\'92t know. I don\'92t know how to get back there, I know they\'92ll be looking for me. I can\'92t turn on my cell phone. I can\'92t board an airplane - I\'92m at my wit\'92s end.\'94\
\'93Your frien\'92, the one your tryin\'92 to help \'97 is she good people?\'94\
Max nodded his head. Julia was good people. \'93Yeah, she\'92s good people.\'94\
Hunter was quiet. \'93Okay, I\'92ll help.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93I\'92ll help. I hate gettin\'92 involved \'97 always trouble gettin\'92 involved in other people\'92s affairs, takes time and takes me away from what I want to be doin\'92, but I\'92ll help.\'94\
\'93I appreciate your offer, but I think I\'92m okay.\'94\
\'93Let me tell it straight to you, because you seem to have a hard time graspin\'92 the truth: you are not okay. You are in trouble. People who wander into my cabin in the middle of a snowstorm because they are being chased by the Feds are in trouble. Now that you have had a good night\'92s sleep and some coffee in you, you might try to delude yourself into believin\'92 that you sailed into this cabin on the wings of victory, but that is certainly not what happened. These guys are after you, and now that the storm has cleared up it\'92s only a matter of time before they come knockin\'92 at my door.\'94\
\'93When this is all over, I can pay you.\'94\
Hunter looked at him. \'93You do me injustice by offerin\'92 to pay. My offer to help is a holy bond from one person to another, and not some financial transaction.\'94\
He looked out the window, \'93Times I think everyone should spend a year in a cabin in Alaska. Things like money \'97 they become meaningless. Food, people \'97 they become important.\'94\
Max said, \'93I don\'92t know what else to do. Thank you for your help; I\'92d be lost without it.\'94\
\'93Your thanks and appreciation are enough. Now let\'92s get to your frien\'92 before time runs out.\'94\
Hunter had a knapsack into which he packed provisions, some clothing.\
\'93We\'92re gonna spend a lot of time in a car, and as you may have guessed I bathe infrequently if at all. I want to apologize in advance for my body-smell; it\'92s gonna be rough for you until we stop at a campsite, and I\'92ll shower there out of respect.\'94\
\'93No worries,\'94 said Max. \'93I don\'92t have a good sense of smell anyway; there was a chemistry accident in my early graduate years.\'94\
\'93Well, that there is serendipity, ain\'92t it?\'94\
\'93We\'92re gonna walk to my friend\'92s truck. We\'92ll borrow it \'97 don\'92t worry, he don\'92t mind. He got a license and everything.\'94\
\'93You don\'92t have a license?\'94\
\'93Never bothered to get one. I just use his when I need one.\'94\
\'93Don\'92t they notice that it\'92s not you on the picture?\'94\
Hunter looked at him: \'93You think hairy old Alaskans look much different? He and are like two peas in a pod. Maybe he got a little more gray than I do, and he needs glasses and I don\'92t, but unless you\'92re one of them TV detectives you\'92ll never know it wasn\'92t my license.\'94\
They began walking. It wasn\'92t snowing anymore, not much anyway \'97 there were some flurries though.\
\'93The snowstorm covered your tracks,\'94 said Hunter. \'93That\'92s a good thing. If they look for you, they won\'92t be quite sure where you\'92ve gone off to. Unless they really want to find you. If they want to find you, they\'92ll get a real tracker, and he\'92ll lead \'91em to my cabin, and then to the truck. But there are maybe only two trackers in the area good enough for that, and I know both of them, and they\'92re hard to get ahold of. It may take a while is what I\'92m saying, and by then we\'92ll be long gone.\'94\
They came to the truck, a beat-up faded Dodge. Hunter walked to the driver\'92s side, open the unlocked door, and got in.\
\'93He leaves it unlocked?\'94\
\'93Yup. Who\'92s gonna take it, anyway? Him and me are the only two people out here, and he knows I wouldn\'92t take it unless I needed it.\'94\
Max got in the truck. The passengers side was unlocked, too.\
\'93I don\'92t turn on the heatin\'92,\'94 said Hunter. \'93Waste of gas. There are some pelts in the back if you want to keep warm.\'94\
\'93Now, Max, I gotta do something. Now you\'92re probably not a religious man, and I\'92m not much of one either, but my Inuit frien\'92s taught me a prayer they say before they go on a hunt, and I like to say it before I step out, so I\'92m gonna bow my head in silence for a minute, and if you\'92d be kind enough to be quiet with me, it\'92d be much appreciated.\'94\
They sat in silence for a minute and Max could see Hunter\'92s eyes were closed and his head was bowed and his lips were moving but he couldn\'92t hear what he was saying. Max looked away because he felt that by watching Hunter he was somehow intruding on a private moment.\
Hunter lifted his head up, \'93Ready to go?\'94\
Max nodded, and off they drove.\
Hunter didn\'92t seem to need much sleep, but Max did. He drifted off to sleep. He awoke to find the truck bouncing up and down.\
\'93I\'92m taking side roads to avoid the border crossings,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t got a passport, and you probably don\'92t want to show \'91em yours.\'94\
\'93Is that illegal?\'94\
\'93Mebbe. I should care more about it, but I don\'92t. Thing is, out here in the wilderness, borders and countries lose their meaning.\'94\
The bouncing continued and then they got on a paved road. \'93We\'92re gonna meet up with BC-97, which is a Canadian Road, and take that most of the way. We\'92ll enter the US somewhere in North Dakota.\'94\
Max drifted off to sleep under the warm pelts he had grabbed from the back. Hunter didn\'92t seem to need to sleep much; Max did. Max slept a lot.\
Days passed. Sometimes they\'92d talk, most of the time they were quiet. The land was ever-changing. They only stopped briefly: to get gas, to use the bathroom, to get something to eat.\
\'93You don\'92t have a cellphone, do you?\'94 said Max.\
\'93Cellphones don\'92t work where I live; no point in gettin\'92 one.\'94\
\'93Would you get one if you had coverage in your cabin?\'94\
\'93Probably not. Cell phones are not my thing.\'94\
\'93I couldn\'92t live without mine.\'94\
\'93It must be hard as hell not turning yours on.\'94\
\'93Yeah, out of habit I reach into my pocket to check it, and then I wonder, \'91where\'92s my cellphone?\'92, and then I remember I turned it off and put it away so I wouldn\'92t be tempted to turn it on and get caught.\'94\
\'93You think they\'92d track you down as soon as you turned it on?\'94\
\'93Last time I turned it on there were police officers around me within minutes.\'94\
\'93Damn, that\'92s fast.\'94\
\'93I was surprised.\'94\
\'93How come you didn\'92t get arrested?\'94\
\'93An explosion \'97 not related \'97 distracted them. And after by then they knew that we had blown our first attempt at freeing Julia, so they weren\'92t worried about me. I could have my cellphone on again. In fact, my friend told me it was better to leave it on so they\'92d be assured of my location.\
\'93What happened at the base?\'94\
\'93The base in Alaska? They figured out what we were trying to do, so they chased me out of there.\'94\
\'93How long did it take for them to figure it out?\'94\
\'93Only a few minutes. I was lucky \'97 it was a private security company, so they probably weren\'92t gonna shoot me, but they\'92d definitely arrest me. Where are we, by the way?\'94\
\'93A few miles outside Princeton. Do you remember the way?\'94\
Max directed Hunter to the Westin and then to Stellarator drive. They could see the lab in front of them. \'93Park here,\'94 said Max.\
Max ran over to the door of the lab. The police phone box rang. He stopped and picked it up.\
A familiar voice was on the line, but different.\
# Colonel Taggart Comes Undone\
As Colonel Taggart awoke one morning from uneasy dreams he found himself transformed in his bed into a weeping wreck.\
He was overcome with grief, and sobbed mightily. It was a grief that knew no bounds, that was limitless and relentless. Time lost meaning. He was trapped in an eternal now of endless despair.\
But time did pass, and his tears dried. And, in the furnace of that grief that went beyond space and time, he became something other than Taggart.\
He raised himself in his bed, and swung his feet to the floor. At that moment, as clear as day, he knew that he would resign his commission. He would diminish, and return to civilian life.\
The unwavering commitment he had to the military, to the country, and to the Right Thing, had somehow unravelled. It had unravelled in a rather spectacular and abrupt manner. What had seemed impossible last night seemed inevitable this morning: he would leave the military.\
Like everything else in the military, there was a protocol for leaving. And one did not become a colonel without mastering the protocols. Taggart, indeed, was a master of protocols, and, sitting on his bed, he began to plan his departure.\
Years of being in the military had colored his thinking: everything was a battle campaign. In this case, he was performing a tactical retreat.\

\i But what happens after I resign?
\i0  he thought, 
\i what then?
\i0 \
He didn\'92t have a plan after leaving the military. But let\'92s focus on tactics and worry about strategy later. First thing first: resignation letter.\
Actually, the resignation letter was the second thing. First he needed to get dressed and prepared for the day, which he did, with military precision.\
Years earlier the resignation letter was physical, often a single page (brevity is important, especially with a resignation letter. The resignation letter is not a mechanism to air grievances or settle scores \'97 it is merely a mechanism to effect change, specifically with regard to military status). But these days much was done with email.\
\

\f1 General Gates,
\f0 \
\
There was a chain of command, and the resignation letter must be delivered to the commanding officer. In his case, General Gates.\
\

\f1 It is with great regret that I tender my resignation as Colonel of the United States Army, effective immediately.\

\f0 \
Short and sweet \'97 the best way.\
\

\f1 Sincerely,\

\f0 \
He typed his name and clicked \'93Send\'94 without hesitating. He counted to ten slowly.\
The phone rang.\
\'93Taggart.\'94\
\'93Gates.\'94\
He knew as sure as day that Gates would call within ten seconds of him submitting his resignation. He wasn\'92t sure how Gates had managed it, but he seemed to be constantly connected. And to never need sleep.\
\'93I must confess your resignation was entirely unexpected.\'94\
\'93I share that sentiment, sir.\'94\
\'93May I ask why you decided to submit your resignation?\'94\
\'93I find myself unable to fulfill the duties of my rank, sir.\'94\
\'93Have you considered a vacation.\'94\
\'93No, sir.\'94\
\'93Would you consider a vacation?\'94\
\'93No, sir. I am confident a vacation would not change anything.\'94\
\'93Colonel Taggart, I am at a loss for words. I do not exaggerate when I say that you are one of the finest military men I have encountered in my career. I have genuine fears that this project will suffer greatly if you depart. Perhaps you would entertain the possibility of staying long enough to see the project through to its end before resigning?\'94\
\'93With all due respect, sir, my resignation is effective immediately.\'94\
\'93Colonel Taggart, there is a possibility that a Brigadier General position may open as a result of personnel changes. Were I to guarantee a promotion to that rank upon your agreement to remain with the project until it finishes, would you consider staying?\'94\
Brigadier General. The brass ring. If he stayed, he\'92d be a general, and he could retire at a higher pay grade.\
But it would be a mistake to think that his career in the military had been driven by the ambition to become a general, which, in his mind, that was a rather shallow and egotistical motivation. No, his motivation ran much deeper. He was in the military to protect and to serve. Yes, that was a clich\'e9, but clich\'e9s can also ring true. Taggart had a well-developed sense of obligation and responsibility.\
\'93General Gates, I \'91m afraid I must decline your generous offer.\'94 Something about Gates formal diction led Taggart to reply in kind.\
\'93Colonel, forgive me if my offer came across as crass; I know that your devotion to military service transcends mere titles. Rather, my offer was a measure of how valuable that service has been, and how much we would like you to remain.\'94\
\'93Understood, sir. And I appreciate those sentiments. May I add that serving under you has been a pleasure and one of the highlights of my career. You have been an excellent commanding officer.\'94\
\'93Is there anything I can do to convince you to stay, even if only a few more days?\'94\
\'93No, sir. My mind is made up.\'94\
\'93Very well, Taggart. On behalf of the United States Army, I would like to thank you for your years of dedicated service and unwavering loyalty. And I would like to apologize.\'94\
\'93Apologize, sir?\'94\
\'93For what is about to happen.\'94\
\'93Sir?\'94\
A colonel flanked by two MPs suddenly entered the room. Each MP grabbed an arm and pulled them behind his back. The telephone handset clattered on the desk. \'93Gates, what is this?\'94 he shouted into the handset. He felt the handcuffs on his wrists, and heard the click as they engaged.\
He looked at the colonel and noted the name \'93DRYSDALE\'94. The colonel was fumbling with a syringe.\
\'93What is going on?\'94 demanded Taggart.\
Instead of replying, the Colonel inserted the syringe into Taggart\'92s arm. And then everything went black.}