{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 She dreamt she was in an impossibly large house. It was beautiful, with soaring vistas. She could hear someone in the distance calling her name.\
\'93Julia! Julia, wake up!\'94\
Dr. Max was shaking her. \'93Wake up Julia! Oh my God, Oh Jesus!\'94\
She said, \'93Max! Why are you saying \'91Jesus\'92? You\'92re Jewish.\'94\
\'93Thank God, you can talk. And, to answer your question, I am Jewish, and I believe that Jesus was a historical person, and furthermore I was trained by Jesuits, and they taught me to say \'91Jesus\'92 when things went horribly wrong.\'94\
She rubbed her eyes. May as well get it over with, fast.\
\'93Max, in what only described as a moment of poor decision-making, I used the equipment to draw an antenna in my amygdala. It was wrong, and I won\'92t do it again.\'94\
\'93Oh Julia, Julia, I wish it was only one antenna.\'94\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\'93The machine has been drawing antennae in your head since about 4:30 am. For the last four hours it has been drawing one antenna every 3 minutes \'97 you have 80 antennae in your head right now.\'94\
\'93What!?\'94\
\'93The program you wrote only controls the placement of the 
\i first
\i0  antenna. After that, the program loops using an algorithm to place the next antenna automatically. It keeps placing antennae as long as it detects a subject in the MRI.\'94\
\'93Oh my God.\'94\
\'93We need to get you through the tests right away. And we need to notify Taggart so he can send a medical doctor as soon as possible.\'94\
He said, \'93Let\'92s get you up first.\'94 He held out his hand. She took it, and his hand felt nice. He led her into the other room.\
\'93That damn MRI; I knew have should have had at least two overrides,\'94 Max said.\
\'93It wouldn\'92t have made a difference; I would have overridden both of them.\'94\
He nodded. He sat her down in a chair and began hooking sensors up to her. \'93We\'92re going to get the basic sensors going, the heartbeat/EKG, breathing, etc..., to detect a sudden catastrophic event as soon as it happens \'97 we don\'92t want to lose you. Things are bad enough as is. Oh Jesus, how could I have let this happen?\'94\
\'93Max: let\'92s get a couple of things straight. First, there was nothing you could have done. I made the decision to draw antennae in my head, not you. Also, I run this company \'97 it\'92s my prerogative to make decisions. There are good decisions, and there are not-so-good decisions, but they\'92re mine to make. So don\'92t blame yourself. You didn\'92t do anything wrong. You did exactly as you should have. Mis-placed guilt is a purposeless emotion, and you are wrong to indulge in it.\'94\
He paused for a second, pursed his lips, and said, \'93You\'92re right.\'94\
She went on, \'93Look at where we are: here, in this lab. I\'92m breathing, you\'92re breathing. We\'92re both healthy as of this moment. I am confident everything is going to be okay.\'94\
Max took a deep breath and said, \'93Okay.\'94\
He seemed more relaxed, more even-keeled. That was good. People tended to make fewer mistakes when they were relaxed. Emotions were wonderful servants but terrible masters. Much of her job as CEO was to dampen the influence of emotions such as anger, despair, fear. Sometimes the best thing a leader could bring to the table was a sense of perspective, to show that these problems which can seem so gargantuan in the moment are merely minor bumps in the road. Confidence helped, too. When people saw that you were confident, they calmed down.\
She was not worried. Maybe she should have been, but she wasn\'92t. She was on the fence with regard to the efficacy of the science \'97 the idea that nudging a ganglion in the brain a few microns over could make an amazing difference seemed silly. She had nudged a couple of neurons in her brain, a couple of ganglions, with the MRI. Big deal. She nudged millions, maybe billions more when she sneezed. Tyrion\'92s disappearance most likely had little or nothing to do with the science or the project. That was the real mystery: what had happened to Tyrion?\
Max picked up the phone on his desk to call Taggart. How retro \'97 a desk phone! And a desk phone that was not connected to the public switched telephone network. She suspected that there were maybe 200 numbers at most that Dr. Max could dial, and he probably only ever dialed two of them: Taggart and the front desk.\
\'93Colonel Taggart? This is Dr. Bernstein. We\'92ve had an accident. What? No, everyone is okay.\'94 Dr. Max turned to look at Julia. \'93Everyone\'92s okay for now.\'94\
\'93The short version is this: there has been an accident, and approximately 80 antennae have been drawn into Ms. Julia Chou\'92s brain.\'94\
There was a long awkward pause.\
\'93She fell asleep on the MRI while it was on and in inscription-mode.\'94\
Another long pause.\
\'93Well, we look forward to seeing you soon then.\'94\
Max hung up the phone and turned to Julia, \'93he\'92s on his way.\'94\
Julia felt odd. She felt as if she was being tickled in a strange place, a place she could not reach. Tickled? More like an itch.\
And then she felt an emotion, a feeling. A feeling with which she was not previously acquainted. She tried to put a name to the feeling.\

\i If electric blue cobalt was a feeling.
\i0 \
Yes, it felt like electric blue cobalt: bright, energizing, and mysterious. And strong, too. She felt a mild sense of vertigo, and her vision blurred.\
She also felt oddly calm.\
Julia, sitting up in the chair, hooked up to many medical instruments, suddenly saw double. \'93I\'92m seeing double. Not quite double, more like a juxtaposition of two almost-identical views.\'94\
Max ran over and began checking the machines. \'93Your pulse rate hasn\'92t budged; kudos to keeping calm. In fact, everything looks normal, although I\'92m beginning to see an interesting harmonic on one of your brain waves.\'94\
\'93I\'92m feeling a mild sense of dizziness. Also a very strong sense of well-being. I think, if anything, my pulse rate and blood pressure may drop slightly.\'94\
\'93You\'92re right about the pulse rate and the blood pressure \'97 they\'92re dropping, but not dangerously so. Also the interesting harmonic seems to have an ebb and flow to it.\'94\
Julia sat on the chair, watching the juxtaposed images. It was almost as if she was seeing two worlds at once, two almost-identical worlds. She also felt a sense of extreme calm. And rather than feeling tired or sleepy, she felt as if she was sitting on a limitless supply of energy, energy that could be tapped if needed.\
\'93Max?\'94\
\'93Julia?\'94\
\'93Was Tyrion black, about five-foot-eleven, one hundred eighty pounds, short-cropped hair, and clean-shaven?\'94\
\'93Yes\'94\
\'93I\'92m looking at him right now.\'94\
Max whipped around, \'93I don\'92t see him. He\'92s not in this room.\'94\
Julia said, \'93He is in my field of view. I believe he sees me, for he\'92s looking at me, but he\'92s squinting, so maybe not. I don\'92t think he hears me, but I will call out anyway. Tyrion? Tyrion? He doesn\'92t appear to hear me.\'94\
\'93I\'92m worried about you, Julia. The harmonic is getting stronger. It\'92s anomalous. I also believe that you\'92re hallucinating. I feel we should sedate you until we have a better understanding of what is happening.\'94\
\'93I\'92d rather you didn\'92t sedate me.\'94\
Max was rummaging through his drawers until he found what he was looking for. A nylon zippered case. He unzipped it. There were several bottles and a syringe.\
\'93You appear to be shaking \'97 perhaps it\'92s you, and not me, that could use sedation.\'94\
She smiled. He frowned.\
\'93That\'92s not funny, Julia. I\'92m shaking because I don\'92t want to lose the second person on this project. I don\'92t know what\'92s happening \'97 it\'92s all very strange \'97 but I think we should put you under.\'94\
He stuck the syringe in one of the bottles, a clear bottle with clear fluid. She couldn\'92t read the label, but she suspected phenobarbital \'97 it was a tried-and-true sedative.\
He pointed the syringe directly upwards, flicked it three times, then squeezed out a single drop to make sure there were no air bubbles.\
\'93I really wish you wouldn\'92t do this,\'94 she said, utterly calm.\
\'93If it helps, I\'92m not happy about doing this either.\'94\
She remained still while he tried to find a vein. \'93Got it! Damn, too far, let me go back.\'94\
He moved the syringe around trying to find the vein. He tried to be still, but he was still trembling. She grimaced. Finally she said, \'93Max, you\'92re butchering my arm. Let me do it, okay?\'94\
\'93Okay. Here it is.\'94 he passed her the syringe.\
She took the syringe. She held it in her right hand, slid the needle into the vein in the crook of her left elbow, and slowly pushed the plunger. When the plunger was all the way in she asked, \'93Are you ready with the bandage?\'94\
\'93Ready\'94.\
\'93I\'92m pulling the syringe out now.\'94 She knew she had approximately 30 seconds once she started pushing the plunger before she passed out. The last thing she remembered saying was \'93Hold me because I\'92m about to pass out\'94. Over Max\'92s shoulder she could see Tyrion squinting at her.}