{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 She found herself on the cot, weeping uncontrollably. She lay there for what seemed like forever. And then dabbed her eyes, went over and made coffee. The banality of grief, she thought to herself.\
She thought of what she had experienced. Was it a dream? She wasn\'92t sure. Had her subconscious conjured a beautiful dream for her, one which reflected what she wanted to see. The truth was drab: she was a woman in her late forties who hadn\'92t showered in at least two days who was holed up in a dilapidated army facility. Glamorous it was not. And being hooked up to electrodes and solving math problems or balancing on a chair or any of 100 simple tests to determine if one\'92s brain was on the fritz \'97 it was soul-crushing. And she missed being around the people she loved.\
She\'92d call her father today. She\'92d call him after she talked to her executive assistant. She\'92d save the last 5 minutes for talking with her dad: 25 minutes for the EA, 5 minutes for dad. It\'92d be nice to hear his voice.\
That was something she learned early but never understood \'97 it was important to do things she enjoyed which were, on the outside, purposeless. Things like writing letters to her mother when a five-minute phone call would have been more efficient (her mother loved letters), or napping in the afternoon.\
There are many kinds of sales reps, but she was aware of one type which seemed odd: they had no friends. It wasn\'92t that they had no friends, it was that their customers were their friends. And the relationship was a mercenary one: when the customers were no longer buying (a transfer to a different position), they would slowly become not-friends. The reps she knew like this were often wonderfully charismatic \'97 people were drawn to them \'97 and were fun-loving and exciting. And they always seemed to be on their way to a special concert or a ski weekend in Utah or scuba diving in Hawaii. They had a vigor, a vitality that seemed to have leapt from a magazine. But there was an undercurrent of something not quite right, something deficient. They had no friends, no friends once their customers were discounted. All their friends were new, made in the last few years.\
It wasn\'92t for her to judge. She found it odd, and was hesitant to become close to such people. She couldn\'92t put her finger on it, but they made her a tad uncomfortable. She kept her distance. They never noticed \'97 there was always a flock of people swirling around them.\
She took out the lab notebook that Max had given her and began jotting notes for her upcoming meeting. As she was writing a colonel flanked by two MPs strode down the hall.\
\'93Julia Chou?\'94\
\'93I am Julia Chou,\'94 she opted for formality. She found that often it was better to err on the side of being too formal. Many people in the military preferred formality \'97 she suspected they found it comforting, in the same manner that they found the military, with its unambivalent rules, comforting.\
\'93My name is Colonel Dryden\'94\
\'93A pleasure to make your acquaintance, Colonel. I am accustomed to dealing with Colonel Taggart \'97 is he indisposed?\'94\
\'93Colonel Taggart can\'92t make it.\'94\
\'93I see. Is there something with which I might help you?\'94\
\'93General Gates would like a word with you.\'94\
\'93Well, if he\'92s looking for me he certainly should know where to find me,\'94 she said, dryly. She noticed one of the MPs suppressed a smile. \'93I would be most interested to meet him in person.\'94\
\'93He can\'92t make it in person.\'94\
\'93Maybe at some point in the future I\'92ll be graced with the presence of General Gates.\'94\
\'93He\'92d like to call on the phone.\'94\
\'93I am ready, but I have my own calls to make in,\'94 she checked the console, \'93eighteen minutes.\'94\
The phone rang, the colonel picked up the handset and pressed the button to put him on speakerphone.\
\'93Julia, what a pleasure,\'94 said General Gates. \'93I want to thank you for spending time with us. This research is incalculably valuable, and you are a key part of that success. I know the testing can be tiresome, the food bland, and the accommodations spartan \'97 I can\'92t thank you enough.\'94\
\'93General, may I remind you that I am here at your insistence?\'94\
\'93Yes, I know, and I\'92m terribly sorry about that. We want to get you out of here once we know everything is okay, and so far everything appears normal and is on track for a timely release.\'94\
Gates was genuine \'97 she had difficulty believing that she was talking to a computer program, an AI. Was she sure he was an AI? Maybe that conversation with Tyrion was a dream. But she had never met Gates, not in person, and she couldn\'92t easily check the Internet. It was a mystery. When she was released she\'92d check.\
\'93Could you hold on a second Julia? There are people in my office.\'94\
She heard muttering over the speaker, then Gates came back on.\
\'93They\'92re tuning the piano. I love playing it to relax. I\'92m not great, but I love the classics: chopsticks, Goldberg variations \'97 it\'92s music to my ears, but hell on my neighbors\'92. Do you enjoy music, Julia?\'94\
For a computer AI he was surprisingly transparent, his question contrived. Subtlety was not this AI\'92s strong suit. She was going to enjoy this.\
\'93I played in my youth,\'94 she said. \'93My parents wanted me to play. I was never terribly good. I did like that one piece by Beethoven...\'94\
She dangled that piece in front of Gates, and now she would see if he rose to the bait.\
\'93Moonlight sonata?\'94 he asked.\
\'93No, the other one.\'94 She wasn\'92t going to say it for him. She was going to make him say it.\
\'93Fur Elise?\'94 he asked.\
\'93Yes, that was it. Fur Elise \'97 it\'92s funny that you mention it because last night \'97 look at the time! I must call work right now. I am terribly sorry General. Perhaps we can pick up this conversation later?\'94\
She wondered how an AI responded to being teased. She wondered if the AI even knew it was being teased. That\'92s a shortcoming of being an AI: they\'92re deprived of the experience of growing up with other children. They don\'92t know what it\'92s like being teased, and they don\'92t even know it\'92s happening. Well, Gates was about to learn. Julia smiled to herself as she picked up her notebook and pen and strode off to the phone room.\
The call with her EA went quickly. Her EA was good, on top of things, crisp.\
Next she called her father. She told him she was away for a week \'97 he didn\'92t seem surprised. She was often traveling somewhere. He was having problems with printing photos from his computer. It was quaint how older people adapt to a technology \'97 they\'92ll adapt some aspects, but not others. For example, Julia never printed photos; she browsed them from her phone or from her computer. But her father\'92s generation preferred to browse physical pictures, placed in photo albums. So it was with her father: he took pictures with his camera, edited them on his computer, and, as a last step, printed them out. He never adapted to browsing photos on his phone or his camera. She suggested he try turning the printer off an on again. \'93I\'92ve already done that five times,\'94 he said in frustration.\
\'93I have to go,\'94 she said. \'93Take care.\'94\
\'93I love you.\'94\
\'93I love you, too.\'94\
She hung up and walked back to Max\'92s lab. The colonel and his two MPs had left, and Max hadn\'92t arrived. She was alone. The phone rang. She picked it up: it was General Gates.\
Gates spoke, \'93I am sorry I couldn\'92t be more forthcoming in our earlier conversation; the topic was something that should have been discussed one-on-one and not in front of a colonel and two MPs. Last night, our secure fiber optic channel was breached in an egregious manner: it was flooded with data, at near maximum capacity. We thought at first it was a denial-of-service attack, but the data coming in did not match that profile \'97 no port scanning, no ICMP source routing requests. We moved to contain the breach, but the data continued to flood in, and the source of the data was this facility. At first we thought it was the Chinese, maybe the Russians, had somehow tapped into our fiber optic cable. But it didn\'92t have the hallmarks of their work. We began examining the data. At first it seemed like nonsense data, garbage, and then we began pattern matching.\'94\
\'93What did you find?\'94\
\'93It was Beethoven\'92s 
\i F\'fcr Elise
\i0 . But it wasn\'92t a mere recording \'97 that amount of data is small, could not saturate our fiber optic cable. Even uncompressed stereo-channel 24 bit data sampled at 44,100 Hz would have been a drop in the bucket. No, this was something unbelievably greater. It was 
\i F\'fcr Elise
\i0 , but stretched out in many dimensions, harmony layered upon harmony. And once we cracked the pattern, we could see it from every angle we examined the music: frequency, amplitude, phase. And the manner in which it hung together was, for lack of a better word, genius. It was something we could only appreciate in the abstract because the human brain can\'92t absorb that much data. Not even close. And then, as soon as it began, it stopped. Our fiber optic cable resumed transmitting normal data.\'94\
\'93What do you think caused it?\'94\
\'93We\'92re not sure,\'94 said Gates. \'93When you mentioned something about 
\i F\'fcr Elise
\i0  and last night, what were you going to say?\'94\
Julia paused. On one hand, Gates had confirmed that at least one of the events last night happened. Which meant that Tyrion may have been real. But the entire episode had a dreamlike quality, and maybe Tyrion wasn\'92t real, or maybe he was real but was paranoid about General Gates. She wasn\'92t sure.\
\'93Last night I dreamt I played 
\i F\'fcr Elise
\i0 ,\'94 said Julia. \'93I dreamt I played a very, very complicated version.\'94\
\'93Thank you, Julia, that is what I needed to know.\'94\
\'93You\'92re welcome.\'94\
\'93I\'92m sorry\'94\
\'93About what?\'94\
\'93About what\'92s about to happen.\'94\
The MPs and the colonel rushed into the room. Julia opened her mouth to speak but each MP grabbed her by the arm and roughly pushed her into the chair.\
\'93What are you doing?\'94 Julia said. \'93Stop it. Let me go.\'94\
She struggled, but to no avail. They were strong. The colonel unzipped a nylon bag and placed it on the table. In it was a syringe and bottles.\
Julia screamed, \'93Help, HELP! Max! Taggart, ANYONE!\'94\
The colonel and MPs ignored her screams. The colonel filled the syringe, walked over to her, and said to the MP on the right, \'93Hold her arm very still.\'94\
Julia screamed, and tried to move her arm, but it was locked down by the MP. He held her arm so tightly that her veins bulged. He tapped one of the veins twice, then slid the syringe in, then quickly depressed the plunger. Julia didn\'92t know what was in the plunger, but she knew she had 30 seconds before it hit her brain. She screamed and struggled for those thirty seconds, and then darkness.}