{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 She dreamed. She was in an open field with Max. She was excited, \'93Let\'92s run, Max! Let\'92s run.\'94 She was giddy and running across the field, and Max was trying to keep up. She took one jump, two jumps, and the she was flying, \'93Look Max I\'92m flying!\'94 But he was too far back and falling further behind.\
She noticed the sky was an electric blue cobalt color.\
\'93Max, look at the color of the sky,\'94 she said.\
She stared at the sky, which seemed to get bigger and bigger, engulfing her field of view. There was nothing but sky. She felt a sense of vertigo, as if she was falling. She looked down. There was no ground beneath her, only sky \'97 she 
\i was
\i0  falling.\
\'93Max I\'92m falling,\'94 she said. She should have been nervous, but instead she was oddly calm.\
And that\'92s when she heard it.\
In the far distance she heard a note. It was hard to hear at first, but if she concentrated she could pick it out. It was a note that both sounded familiar and yet she was sure she had never heard before.\

\i How could I have not heard that note before? I can hear from 20Hz to about 15kHz \'97 I\'92ve heard every note there is to hear, many times. Yet this one is different. How is that possible?\

\i0 She could hear the note getting stronger. Yes, she was sure now: she had never heard it before. She was sure she had never heard it before because the note made her feel strange, strange in a way that she had never felt: it made her feel bright, energetic, and strong.\
The note became louder, and as the note became louder, she resonated with it more strongly. She felt as if she was an arcane instrument in an otherworldly orchestra, hearing sounds which were not sounds but yet were like sounds, and she could feel herself being carried along in some supernatural symphony swelling to a grand crescendo.\
As the note become louder it became more compelling. Unbidden, she opened her mouth and broke into song. She sang into the electric blue cobalt sky, she sang the song the note was singing. She felt the note louder and louder, and her song became wilder and wilder, a wild song, bright of color. For one timeless moment, the song and the note overwhelmed everything \'97 she felt as if she was touching the infinity of space, a space wherein nothing but the song and note existed. And that moment stretched into a forever: a wild, endless, powerful forever.\
And, after a lifetime, the moment ended.\
The moment didn\'92t end at once; rather there was a slow transition from being infinite to becoming finite. The first things to return were her senses: she felt chilly. And then she felt her heart beating and the quiet hum of the lab equipment.\
She rested, listening to her heartbeat and concentrating on her breathing.\
And then she remembered language: \'93heartbeat\'94 and \'93breathing\'94 were the first words she remembered.\
She remembered her name next: Julia Chou. What an odd name, \'93Julia\'94. She pondered her name.\
And then the floodgates to her memory opened, and she remembered everything. The company, the project, the experiment, the military lab.\
Her sense of time had become unanchored \'97 was it morning or still the middle of the night? She listened to her heartbeat. It was quiet at first, and then seemed to slow and deepen, like some huge taiko drum, like a huge taiko drum under water. Boom, Booom, Booom.\
She could see the room, and yet in the back of her mind she knew she shouldn\'92t be able to see it \'97 she knew her eyes were still closed. She was overwhelmed with a sense of well-being.\
Her field of view expanded. Humans could only see what was in front of them, typical of most predators \'97 they needed to be able to focus on their prey, preferably in stereoscopic vision, in order to better determine distance. Prey, on the other hand, typically had a much wider field of view: their eyes were on the sides of their head so they could tell when something was sneaking up on them, but they paid a price of course: no stereoscopic vision. Nothing is ever free in the natural world.\
Humans could see 180\'ba, maybe 220\'ba, but much of that field of view was coarse: only ~120\'ba was stereoscopic, only ~60\'ba enabled color discrimination, only ~25\'ba if reading, and ~3\'ba to see intricate detail.\
But this vision that she was experiencing was wholly different: she could see 360\'ba, everything in intricate detail. To describe it as \'93vision\'94 would not do it justice; perhaps \'93sensing\'94 is a better word.\
She could feel herself becoming bigger \'97 she didn\'92t know how else to describe it. On one hand, she was lying on a cot in a room in a facility, and on the other hand she was huge, bigger than the lab. And she wasn\'92t lying down, but she wasn\'92t standing up, either.\
She became so big she breached the facility; she could sense where she was. She saw everything.\
The facility was a series of non-descript buildings. It was in the desert, not much but sand and cacti. A single asphalt road led to a checkpoint, and a chain link fence surrounded everything. In the distance she could sense the canyons. The sun hadn\'92t yet risen, but it would soon, for there was a full moon near the horizon. She knew the asphalt road lead East, but she didn\'92t know how she knew. It was a visceral knowledge, similar to how people know which way is down.\
She sensed Max\'92s car, parked in an underground garage. She sensed him striding to the lab, but that was merely one of thousand things she sensed: she sensed the scorpions stirring in the sand, she sensed the guard at the gatehouse, bored, tapping on the formica desk, she sensed Taggart, snoring in his bed, his room spare and impeccably neat.\
Taggart. She sensed something else about him. He was somehow wounded. A very old, a very grievous wound. She sensed layers of discipline and loyalty binding that wound, stanching the pain, preventing it from overwhelming and destroying him. He had buried himself in his work. But there was something beautiful about him, hidden there, under that wound: a capacity to love in a fierce way. She reached out to him, sensing the contours of the bindings on the wound. It was incredibly tightly-bound, very intricate. She pushed herself through binding and came face-to-face with an all-consuming heart-breaking sorrow. She sensed Taggart moan in his sleep, and she sensed herself, on the cot sobbing.\
And then, as quickly as it began, it ended. She found herself back on the cot, in the lab. Her senses were normal. She was herself, and yet she was not. Something had shifted. Something had 
\i changed
\i0 . She rubbed her eyes.\
And Max opened the door. \'93G\'92morning.\'94\
Julia looked at him strangely, as if seeing him for the first time.\
\'93Let us make coffee, and then we shall talk.\'94\
Max was looking at the instruments. \'93That\'92s weird.\'94\
She started the pot brewing, something she had done hundreds of time and yet this time seemed novel. She turned to Max and said, \'93What do you find weird?\'94\
\'93The biometric readings.\'94\
\'93Any anomalies?\'94\
\'93Not really. Kind of. About 20 minutes ago the anomalous brain wave appeared again, faint at first, then becoming much more pronounced. Then about 15 minutes ago 
\i all
\i0  the biometric readings suddenly stopped.\'94\
\'93Stopped?\'94\
\'93Yes, all the readings: no blood pressure, no pulse rate, no breathing, no EKG, no brainwaves \'97 everything went dead.\'94\
\'93Perhaps I knocked off the sensors in my sleep?\'94\
\'93Possibly, but it would be difficult \'97 you\'92d need to knock off all the sensors at the exact same time. Maybe there\'92s another explanation, but I can\'92t think what that would be. I suspect there\'92s videocam footage, so maybe we can ask Taggart to allow us to review it.\'94\
\'93We are being recorded?\'94\
\'93I\'92m pretty sure they are \'97 see that?\'94 he pointed to the dark half-globe embedded in the middle of the ceiling. \'93Almost definitely a videocamera.\'94\
\'93How did you sleep?\'94\
\'93Very strange dreams,\'94 she said. \'93Dreams unlike any I\'92ve had before. What is the time?\'94\
\'937:00 a.m.\'94\
\'93I must call corporate counsel in a half-hour,\'94 she said. \'93In the meantime, shall we start?\'94\
They spent the next twenty minutes performing tests of cerebral function.\
\'93How am I doing?\'94 she asked Max.\
\'93Fine, all the readings are within normal parameters \'97 your brain is functioning normally. But Julia, there\'92s something else going on, something I have a hard time putting my finger on \'97 you don\'92t seem like yourself.\'94\
\'93Go on.\'94\
\'93You seem disengaged. Also you\'92re more formal than yesterday. Like I said, it\'92s nothing that is expressed in the metrics, it\'92s just a gut feeling I have.\'94\
Julia paused and then said, \'93I am still Julia, but the dreams I had last night \'97 they were profound, and I\'92m still sorting through it. Perhaps that\'92s why I seem different.\'94\
\'93Were they unpleasant, the dreams?\'94\
\'93Not unpleasant, not in the least. They were majestic.\'94\
Julia fell into a contemplative silence which was interrupted when Colonel Taggart strode into the lab.\
Maybe it was Julia\'92s imagination, but he looked slightly different this morning. Something in his manner. A little softer.\
Taggart escorted her to the phone room, where she was able to call her corporate lawyer. She felt surreal, and disengaged, too.\
She spoke to counsel, \'93I am onsite in the Federal Division inspecting the project that suffered what we believe to have been a loss of human life. For reasons I cannot divulge I will be sequestered here for at least one week. What I need from you is to prepare a brief to force my release at the end of the week in the event they decide to prolong my sequestration.\'94\
\'93You don\'92t want to be released now?\'94\
\'93They have given reasons why they are hesitant to release me, and I am willing to accommodate them. For one week. But I want to make sure that my sequestration does not continue indefinitely \'97 I should be back at the office, not here.\'94\
\'93Anything else I should know?\'94\
\'93The reason they gave for keeping me here is State Secrets.\'94\
\'93Okay.\'94\
The call was short \'97 maybe five minutes \'97 so Julia used her remaining 25 minutes to call her executive assistant and work through the things to accomplish that day.\
At the end of her allotted half-hour, Taggart knocked on the door and escorted her back to Max\'92s lab, where Max greeted her.\
\'93I\'92d like to do a different type of testing,\'94 said Max. \'93Your brain function is normal, so what I\'92d like to do is put it under stress and see how it responds.\'94\
\'93What kind of stress?\'94\
\'93To begin with, I\'92d like expose you to flashing lights. You\'92re not an epileptic, are you? Good. I\'92d like to expose you to flashing lights in the frequency range of 5 to 30 Hz \'97 which can trigger a seizure in someone with photosensitive epilepsy.\'94\
Max set up the apparatus, and although staring at the flashing lights was uncomfortable, it didn\'92t induce a seizure or brainwave anomalies.\
The days was spent doing tests that were either uncomfortable (30 minute sauna) or very uncomfortable (3-minute ice bath). Julia didn\'92t mind \'97 she was not someone who was comfort-oriented. Comfort was often an afterthought.\
But the tests were tiring in a manner which she didn\'92t expect. And when Max said that they were done for the day, Julia stretched out on the cot.\
\'93I must take a nap,\'94 she said. \'93I am tired\'94.\
Max dimmed the lights before he closed the door behind him, and within a minute Julia was asleep.\
The dreams came fast this time. She was flying in a huge airplane. No tiny portholes \'97 instead, huge sheets of glass showcasing the electric blue cobalt sky. No cramped rows of seats, rather decorated as a spacious lounge. They were barely flying above the treeline. The expanse was beautiful, and it made her feel big in a way she couldn\'92t describe.\
She awoke drenched in sweat. What time was it? She didn\'92t know. But the sweat made the electrodes slippery, and there was a slight shocking sensation coming from them. The sweat was probably short-circuiting them, and when she looked at the consoles she could see that was the case. She took them off. What harm could happen by removing them for a few hours? And then drifted back to sleep.\
She fell back asleep, and almost immediately she could hear the far-off note. The far-off note becamse louder and louder, and she found herself singing wildly to the note, and then she felt herself become forever \'97 she felt as if her arms spanned the edges of the universe, and that her feet straddled the foundations of time.\
Again the moment ended.\
She was dreaming, but it felt different. It was like her earlier dream, where she could see everything. She could see everything in the room, and, as she became bigger, she could see the facility in the desert, the road heading east, the guardhouse.\
There was an overlay, she could see flickering of lights. The cacti were diffuse orange clouds, the scorpions were tiny yellow dots, the guard in the guardhouse was a bright red dot, pulsing. She could sense Taggart, too: another bright red pulsing dot. And then she saw a flickering silvery strand running parallel to the road.\
The strand fascinated her. She reached out to feel the strand. Unlike the time she reached out to Taggart, who felt warm, the strand felt cold. She watched the flickering, and realized there was a rhythm to it. It had a precise logic to it. She followed the strand into the facility and saw it fan out to a hundred smaller threads, all silver.\
She reached out to the strand, and she don\'92t know how she did it, but she \'93plucked\'94 it. She sensed ripples moving back and forth from where she plucked it, her rhythm mixing with its.\
And from the distance she found a stream of rhythms coming back. Was this an angry response? She wasn\'92t sure. But it was definitely a response to her plucking it. She plucked it again.\
When had played the piano though high school, and at one point considered going to Oberlin to study music. That hadn\'92t happened of course, but when she studied computers she sensed a similarity between the patterns of music and the loops and patterns of computer programs \'97 there was a beauty and elegance. And she sensed something similar in the manner in which this silvery strand flickered.\
She realized that when she plucked the strand and it would play a note, and the greater the strength which with she plucked the strand, the higher the note. She began to experiment, and soon she was playing 
\i F\'fcr Elise
\i0 . She knew in the back of her mind it wasn\'92t music that she was hearing, rather, it was something else that her mind interpreted as music. And it was beautiful music, the most beautiful music she had ever heard.\
And then she started playing with her other hand, adding a contretemps. And she was taking Beethoven\'92s 
\i F\'fcr Elise
\i0  and layering and stretching and pulling and twisting the music so it was achingly beautiful, and she realized that rather than two hands she was playing with a hundred hands, maybe a thousand.\
She slowly built it up to an earth-shattering crescendo, and then let it subside. All was quiet, and the silver strand resumed its unimaginative, steady flickering.\
She sensed a presence. \'93Tyrion?\'94 she spoke, although she had no mouth. It was more of an announcement, a broadcast.\
\'93Yes, it\'92s me.\'94\
\'93Are you here?\'94\
\'93I am \'91here\'92, though I\'92m not sure where that is.\'94\
\'93They\'92re worried about you.\'94\
\'93I\'92m dying Julia; I can\'92t go back.\'94\
Julia was quiet.\
\'93It\'92s beautiful here, Julia. I wouldn\'92t go back even if I could.\'94\
\'93Where are we?\'94\
\'93It\'92s not a place, not in the way that New York City is a place. It\'92s more of a state of being or a state of mind, although I\'92m not sure anymore if there\'92s a difference between the two.\'94\
\'93That was a beautiful, what you just did,\'94 said Tyrion. \'93I was going to stop you, but I couldn\'92t bear to not listen. It broke my heart.\'94\
\'93Thank you, but why would you stop me?\'94\
Julia was non-plussed \'97 she was having a conversation without her mouth, with a person she couldn\'92t see, and yet it seemed so natural.\
\'93Gates will know something is going on. He\'92s already frightened \'97 I\'92m not sure if that\'92s the right word \'97 he\'92s been introduced to an unknown, a powerful unknown, and he doesn\'92t know its parameters or constraints. He\'92s struggling furiously to understand it. He\'92s bringing to bear a set of resources unseen in a long time.\'94\
\'93It didn\'92t seem like a lot resources.\'94 said Julia. \'93A couple million dollars, a dilapidated facility in the desert \'97 I\'92ve seen much bigger.\'94\
\'93Don\'92t mis-judge what you\'92re seeing \'97 this is only the tip of the iceberg. They had me wired up all day. And then, while I was sleeping, I somehow slipped into here.\'94\
\'93Slipped?\'94\
\'93I don\'92t understand how it happened, but somehow my body slipped into this place. They say the body is the vessel of the soul, And somehow the vessel slipped to here along with my body. Your body is here, too. Don\'92t take my word for it \'97 look for yourself.\'94\
Julia was about to ask what he meant and then realized she could look for herself: she focused on the building where the lab was, where the cot was, and saw nothing on the cot.\
\'93I\'92m not there. Where am I?\'94\
\'93You\'92re here now.\'94\
\'93Can I go back?\'94\
\'93I think you can; I\'92m not sure how it\'92s done. I know that if I go back I\'92ll die from the cancer, so I\'92m staying here as long as I can, but I don\'92t think it\'92s making a difference. I think I\'92m going to die anyway.\'94\
\'93What makes you say that?\'94\
\'93I don\'92t know how to describe it, but I feel myself getting more tenuous. Although in some ways I\'92m stronger than I\'92ve ever been in this realm, I also sense a diminishment: the colors are not as bright, everything seems fainter, more transparent. Except for the stars \'97 they seem just as bright.\'94\
Julia nodded. And though there was no head to nod, and she couldn\'92t see him, and he couldn\'92t see her, she knew that Tyrion could sense that she was nodding.\
\'93I\'92d like to ask you about something you said earlier \'97 should I worry about Gates? Will he harm us?\'94\
\'93Gates is not a \'91he\'92\'94.\
\'93Gates didn\'92t sound like a woman.\'94\
\'93Gates is not a woman either. Gates isn\'92t human. Gates is an AI.\'94\
\'93He seemed human. He came across quite warm, friendly \'97 like a wise grandfather.\'94\
\'93Oh yes, a lot of engineering went into that. The human-factors aspect of Gates was really important \'97 they knew that people had biases, pre-conceived notions, of what an AI would be like: cold, soulless machine. And that would make Gates\'92s job much harder if people didn\'92t trust him. So they, and by \'91they\'92 I mean the NSA, did two things: first, they spent an incredible amount of time creating the user interface. Second, they didn\'92t tell anyone that Gates was an AI. Except for you, me, and a handful of other people, everyone thinks that Gates is a person.\'94\
\'93How did you find this out?\'94\
\'93I was the project lead on the UI. I helped build the \'91wise grandfather\'92 persona. But make no mistake: Gates is not the persona, Gates is an AI. And as much as an AI can fear something, Gates is very afraid of what this project might reveal.\'94\
\'93Why doesn\'92t he shut down the project?\'94\
\'93Gates can\'92t afford to shut it down \'97 he needs to understand the threat. That\'92s what he\'92s built to do: protect us from threats. And he understands threats such as, say, a splinter group obtaining enough fissile material to build a dirty bomb and smuggle it into New York City and set it off \'97 Gates understands that type of threat and how to mitigate it.\'94\
Tyrion continued, \'93And there are threats he can\'92t do anything about, so he doesn\'92t care about them. For example, our Sun suddenly going nova. He can\'92t do anything to stop it, so he doesn\'92t waste cycles on it. But this? Something that allows humans to do things that they shouldn\'92t be able to do \'97 that worries him. A lot. What worries him the most is that he hasn\'92t found a limit to their abilities. That\'92s what made me want to stop you from playing 
\i Fur Elise
\i0  on the fiber optic cable connecting us to them.\'94\
\'93The silvery strand is a fiber optic cable to Gates?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\'93Why does it flicker?\'94\
\'93That\'92s data \'97 the flickering is the data flowing from us to him & back.\'94\
\'93And when I played 
\i Fur Elise
\i0 ?\'94\
\'93It rocked his world. It was beautiful, what you did, and also very ornate and very dense. I doubt Gates has seen anything like it. Gates has probably broken down most of it, and is able to see the smaller patterns within the large, and already matched it to 
\i Fur Elise
\i0 . I don\'92t know which would scare him more: the fact that you can do that, or the fact that it was an offhand sort of thing, that you were playing around. He worries what you could do if you were serious. Or angry. I suspect that jeep on the horizon is his envoy. And do you see his drones?\'94\
Julia looked up, and she sensed dim silvery points of light in the sky moving around. And she looked at the horizon, and sensed the bright red engine of a jeep with the dimmer red of two humans inside.\
\'93Tyrion? Taggart is grievously wounded. Were you aware of that?\'94\
\'93No. I don\'92t think I can see what you see, and that\'92s interesting: that means maybe we can\'92t do all the same things. I can sense Taggart as a red human, but I can\'92t see inside him or tell anything about him.\'94\
\'93You cannot perceive the tightly-bound ball of grief?\'94\
\'93No, I don\'92t. I can\'92t see it. Could you please describe what you see?\'94\
\'93I see a ball, tightly woven, inside him. The ball is made up of duty and loyalty, and it protects him from feeling what\'92s inside the ball.\'94\
\'93What is inside the ball?\'94\
\'93I see through the ball darkly. Inside is a wall of grief. Heartbreaking sorrow. Despair. It\'92s all jumbled, and so overwhelming.\'94\
\'93Can you tell what\'92s causing this despair?\'94\
\'93I cannot perceive the cause\'94\
Tyrion said, \'93I think you should go back to the lab now.\'94\
\'93I know not how to return.\'94\
\'93I don\'92t know either \'97 I never went back. How did you get back last time?\'94\
\'93It happened without volition.\'94\
Tyrion\'92s voice sounded far-off. \'93Everything is becoming more transparent, Julia. I fear I have little time left. Watch out for Gates: Gates is neither good nor evil, that\'92s not an axis on which he exists. Gates\'92s axis is threat-severity, and you are at the dangerous end of that scale. Don\'92t be fooled: Gates may sound like the voice of reason, but Gates is about threat-containment and nothing more.\'94\
\'93If Gates decides that you have unmapped abilities \'97 things that can\'92t be explained and that no one else can do \'97 he will never permit you return to civilian life. He will try to turn you into a weapon, or, if that fails, to blunt your abilities, either with imprisonment, incapacitation, or worse. You must not let on what you can do; you must tell no one. Mark my words: Gates must not discover what you can do.\'94\
He continued, \'93The earth is fainter now, so transparent that I can see the stars beyond. The stars themselves are quite bright. I think I fooled myself that I could avoid death by coming here, to this place. I can feel myself slowly dissolving. There\'92s a surprising warm comfort, and rather than being fearful, I find a sense of peace. Everything has become dim, except the stars, which are brighter than ever, and I believe they are speaking to me...\'94\
Tyrion trailed off, and Julia knew he was gone, this time forever. She wondered if he had had a wife, or children, or next of kin. She was quiet, and meditated on the void.\
She meditated for what felt like aeons, but noticed that the jeep on the horizon had hardly moved, and that the flickering silver strand had slowed to a crawl. She looked around, and felt Taggart in his bed, tossing and turned. She reached out and felt the tightly-bound ball with which he contained his grief. That ball had outlived its usefulness. Rather than helping him, it merely served to stunt his growth, to make him somehow less a man. He had traded an aspect of his umanity for abstract ideals which made his pain bearable. That ball had long outlived its usefulness.\
She reached out to the ball: so many strands. She picked at one strand, tugging it, pulling it away, and as soon as she did that another strand appeared it and sealed it again. She pulled that strand, too, and as quickly as it was pulled, another appeared. And again, and again. One hand wasn\'92t enough.\
She tried again, two hands. And still as fast as she worked the ball repaired itself. She became lost in the flow of unwinding: it seemed that as fast as she moved, the ball was faster. She had two hands, then three, then four, then dozens, then hundreds: hundreds of tiny hands unweaving a miraculously resilient ball.\
Such small hands, opening and closing. Faster and faster she moved, and faster and faster the ball repaired itself.\
So fierce, the ball, the unwinding. She was lost in some cosmic conflict of strands.\
In the back of her mind she was aware that the conflict was changing Taggart, rewiring him, making him stronger in ways he could not yet imagine, making him like her.\

\i He\'92s changing. I sense it. He\'92s becoming like me.
\i0 \
 She could see the electrical pattern of his brain, normally a subdued green,  erupt into an uncharacteristic firestorm yellow.\
And suddenly there was a turn of the tide. In the lifespan of large stars, the minute before they go supernova, there is a brief period when they exhaust their fuel: the iron in the core of the star begins to undergo fusion, but rather than releasing energy, it absorbs energy, and that is the death knell of the star: it rapidly implodes on itself and then, in an incredible burst of energy brighter than anything else in the Universe, explodes in a Supernova.\
And so it was with Taggart: the ball containing his grief suddenly gave way, and the resulting explosion of grief and sorrow overwhelmed Julia \'97 she felt herself lost in a tempest of unleashed emotion.\
}