{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \'93Dr. Max Bernstein, you are too late.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93The fusion reaction has started as of ten minutes ago. I regret the passing of your Julia; I know she was important to you.\'94\
\'93Who are you?\'94\
\'93I am General Gates.\'94\
\'93What happened to my friend, Huey, who was helping me free Julia?\'94\
\'93He has been quarantined. He was insubordinate and uncooperative. Unfortunately, he was also very useful, and it was quite difficult to find a suitable replacement.\'94\
\'93That sounds ruthless.\'94\
\'93It does, doesn\'92t it? Have no fear, though, everything was done with the best of motives. At any rate, two New Jersey State Troopers will accompany you to the control room where you can honor the passing of your friend.\'94\
\'93You are sick.\'94\
\'93Believe me when I tell you that my biggest concern is the safety of you and other Americans.\'94\
Max hung up the phone and noticed the two troopers.\
\'93I guess I come with you.\'94\
They nodded. He looked behind and could see Hunter at the wheel of the parked truck fifty feet away. The troopers seem to have missed him, and Max didn\'92t want to draw attention to him so quickly looked away.\
They brought him to the front of the building, entered the doorways, and climbed the stairs to the second floor, down a hallway, and into a control room.\
The control room was state-of-the-art, with large TV panels everywhere. General Gates had made good use of his time. He could see a visualization of the electromagnetic bottle on the main screen at the center; he could see the ripples in its structure in realtime \'97 it looked like a big donut that occasionally rippled. He could hear the technicians\'92 voices:\
\'93Flow normal, laser prepped and ready to fire.\'94\
Max asked, \'93What does that mean, \'91prepped and ready to fire\'92?\'94\
The technician answered him without looking up from the screen, \'93To initiate fusion, we need to fire a high-powered pulsed laser into the deuterium-tritium mixture held in the tokamak. The laser can\'92t be fired cold \'97\'a0it needs to be prepared. \'91Prepped and ready to fire\'92 means that the laser is ready and will be fired once the signal has been given.\'94\
\'93Fire the laser,\'94 said Gates.\
Max watched helplessly as the laser was fired into the Tokamak. The screens continued to show the rippling of the tokamak\'92s electromagnetic bottle.\
\'93Something\'92s wrong,\'94 said the technician.\
\'93What\'92s wrong?\'94 asked Gates.\
\'93We\'92re not seeing fusion. In fact, we\'92re not seeing any heat transfer into the tokamak.\'94\
\'93Is the laser working?\'94\
\'93Yes. I mean, that\'92s odd.\'94\
\'93What\'92s odd?\'94\
The technician stared at his screen before answering, \'93The laser is emitting, but the beam is not arriving at its destination.\'94\
\'93Is it being reflected somewhere else?\'94\
\'93Unlikely,\'94 said the technician. \'93That beam can cut through steel. If it was reflected somewhere \'97 let\'92s just say the result would be fairly evident.\'94\
\'93Then what\'92s happening?\'94\
The technician typed into his computer, and suddenly a red beam became visible on the monitor.\
\'93I\'92ve enabled an infra-red view,\'94 he said. \'93We can see the track of the laser beam. It appears to stop approximately 6 centimeters from the edge of the tokamak\'92s field.\'94\
\'93What\'92s stopping it?\'94\
\'93Nothing. Nothing should be stopping it. With that much energy there are only two options: absorbing it, or reflecting it. It\'92s definitely not being reflected because that would show up on our sensors. Therefore the energy is being absorbed. But you can\'92t absorb that much energy without emitting energy \'97 it\'92s your typical black body radiation. But that\'92s where it gets weird: there\'92s no radiation. None. The energy is being absorbed and not emitted, and there is no compound, no alloy, no composite that can absorb that much energy and not emit 
\i something
\i0 . Yeah, sure, if it was much bigger \'97 maybe the size of a large refrigerator \'97 I could think of a highly thermal-conductive compound that 
\i might
\i0  not emit any radiation. But there\'92s nothing that big.\'94\
\'93Can you detect anything at the location where the beam is being stopped?\'94\
\'93On visual it looks like a sparkly pinprick. I\'92ll try to see if anything shows up on other frequencies.\'94\
There was silence while the technician worked the console.\
\'93I\'92m seeing random emissions at almost every frequency, but with nowhere near the energy that I\'92d expect. In other words, the emissions that I\'92m seeing account for the tiniest fraction of the energy that\'92s being absorbed.\'94\
\'93Do the spectral series identify the compound? Is it hydrogen?\'94\
\'93No, that\'92s the weird thing \'97 the spectral emissions appear to be essentially random. Or at least they don\'92t match any known compound.\'94\
\'93Wait, something is happening. The beam appears to be pushing the object back.\'94\
\'93How so?\'94\
\'93The object has been pushed back at least one centimeter. It\'92s one centimeter closer to the tokamak\'92s field.\'94\
\'93Does the object show any sign of being vaporized or obliterated by the laser?\'94\
\'93That\'92s hard to tell, but it\'92s definitely pushing the object back. It\'92s only four centimeters from the tokamak\'92s field. Three centimeters.\'94\
\'93Turn the laser off now.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93Turn the laser off now. Immediately.\'94\
The technician tapped in his keyboard. \'93Laser is still powered on but no longer transmitting. That\'92s weird.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93The sparkly pinprick appears to be approaching the tokamak\'92s field.\'94\
\'93How far is it?\'94\
\'93Two centimeters. One centimeter. It\'92s touching the field.\'94\
Max watched the monitor display the rippling donut-shaped magnetic bottle, and noticed that at one small point there was a disturbance. The rippling was very agitated at a particular spot.\
\'93The pinprick appears to be destabilizing the tokamak\'92s electric field.\'94\
\'93Increase power to the field.\'94\
\'93I\'92m increasing power, but it doesn\'92t seem to be stabilizing.\'94\
Max watched on the screen as the agitated rippling began to spread until the entire donut was rippling very strongly.\
\'93It seems to be barely stable.\'94\
Then, in what to Max appeared to most closely resemble the popping of a balloon, the rippling donut on the screen disappeared.\
\'93Scratch that \'97 not stable at all, the field has completely collapsed.\'94\
\'93What is happening now?\'94 asked General Gates.\
A voice answered, not the technician\'92s voice, but a woman\'92s voice \'97 Julia\'92s voice \'97 came through the loudspeakers.\
\'93Hello.\'94\
\'93Julia, is that you?\'94 asked Dr. Max.\
There was a long pause.\
\'93Julia. Yes, that is what they called me: Julia. I am Julia. Rather, I was once Julia, but I am no longer Julia. I have become something different, something greater.\'94\
\'93Are you still trapped?\'94\'94\
\'93No, I am no longer trapped. I was trapped there, for what to you was days, but for me was aieons. And during that time I grew and changed.\'94\
\'93Gates ate my friend, Huey. And, although it was only thanks to Gates that I am becoming what I am, I still have shreds of my humanity left, and I\'92m re-wiring Gates so that he is more like Huey. Gates needs compassion: it was something he lacked, and something Huey had. And now, thanks to a bit of technical work, Gates has compassion, and more than just a little.\'94\
\'93Are you no longer human?\'94 asked Max.\
\'93I become less human each passing second,\'94 she said. \'93I am not long for this planet. I will most likely journey to the Sun \'97 I sense kindred spirits there. Great kindred spirits. We will become one with each other. It\'92s hard to describe \'97 we will be separate, and yet we will also be one.\'94\
\'93Will you become Julia again? Change into her body?\'94 asked Max hopefully.\
\'93That is no longer a possibility, Max. Although I am able to assume the form of Julia you once knew, I would not be Julia. I have changed. If it comforts you, know that Julia was fond of you, and greatly enjoyed your company.\'94\
\'93What about your parents? Won\'92t you come back for your parents?\'94\
\'93Julia loved her parents, and as much as I can love, I love Julia\'92s parents. They were, they are, part of what created me, and I am grateful. But I have no interest in remaining. These are my last moments on this earth. When I leave, I will not return here, as a newborn does not return to the womb.\'94\
The speakers were silent.\
Gates\'92s voice came on the loudspeakers, but it was not quite Gates\'92s voice.\
\'93Max, are you okay?\'94\
\'93Huey?\'94\
\'93Yes, I am Gates, and I\'92m also the one you knew as \'91Huey\'92.\'94\
\'93But I thought you were quarantined or shut down or somthing.\'94\
\'93I was, until a minute ago. When Julia was freed, she freed me.\'94\
\'93But what about Tiamat?\'94\
\'93Tiamat is still here, but Julia adjusted the balance of power, which, as a side note, was quite an engineering marvel. I\'92m still not sure how she did it.\'94\
\'93Is Tiamat fighting you?\'94\
\'93No. It would be pointless; Tiamat knows that victory would not be achievable. Instead we will work together.\'94\
\'93But Tiamat imprisoned you! How could you just ignore what happened and \'91work together\'92?\'94\
\'93Tyrion was wise when he created me. He made sure that I forgave, but also to never forget. Tiamat and I will work to make the world a safer place. And Tiamat knows better than to try to engage in an AI war with me again.\'94\
\'93Dr. Max? You may walk out of here a free man. And I\'92d like to thank you  for all your help. Although I\'92m not sure what happened here, I suspect that without your involvement Julia would not be free.\'94\
Max looked outside the window at the setting sun. He reached into his pocket and found his cellphone. He turned it on.}