{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 It was a week later, and they were in an army base in New Jersey.\
\'93Pardon my surprise, but I thought Congress had shut the base down a couple of years ago.\'94\
Colonel Taggart looked across the table at her and said, \'93They 
\i did
\i0  shut it down a couple of years ago. We\'92re the clean-up crew.\'94 then he smiled to himself.\
He continued, \'93I know you\'92re busy; I know I\'92m busy, so why did you come all the way here?\'94\
\'93I need to know what happened.\'94\
\'93The people who need to know already know.\'94\
\'93Colonel Taggart,\'94 she said, \'93I\'92m asking you to appreciate the position I\'92m in: I\'92m the final custodian of risk. When someone dies using one of our products, we need to make sure that we\'92re doing the utmost to make sure it doesn\'92t happen again. Except I can\'92t make sure it doesn\'92t happen again because no one will tell me what happened. Even worse, no one seems sure what happened.\'94\
\'93The people who need to know, already know,\'94 he repeated.\
\'93I\'92m shutting down the project,\'94 she said.\
That got his attention; she had a hunch she\'92d have to play that card.\
\'93You can\'92t shut down the project.\'94\
\'93Actually I can,\'94 she said. \'93My counsel has reviewed the project\'92s contract.\'94\
\'93There\'92s a penalty for early termination,\'94 he sputtered.\
\'93Yes, there\'92s a steep financial penalty. It\'92ll certainly hurt the company,\'94 she said. \'93I don\'92t see another choice. I can\'92t have a second death. We need to understand what\'92s going on.\'94\
She lowered her tone, \'93Colonel, in civilian life there are terrible repercussions when people die. People go to jail, companies are shuttered. As the steward of this company, I can\'92t allow a second person to die on my watch. Not only is it harmful to the company, but more importantly it\'92s not the right thing.\'94\
The colonel clenched his jaw. \'93What do you think you\'92ll find? A smoking gun? A device that has a tendency to explode? Loose, uninsulated wiring that electrocutes people? There\'92s no carelessness, no negligence.\'94\
\'93Let me be the judge of that.\'94\
\'93You\'92re not getting project clearance.\'94\
\'93That\'92s your decision, Colonel.\'94\
\'93And you\'92re not shutting the project down, either.\'94\
\'93
\i That
\i0  is my decision, not yours.\'94\
He began talking loudly about national security and ground-breaking research. She let him go on.\
\'93I think we\'92re done here, Colonel.\'94\
The Colonel shook his head. \'93Don\'92t touch the project.\'94\
\'93I\'92ll do what I must to protect the company.\'94\
She picked up her things and walked out the door. The meeting hadn\'92t gone as she had hoped, but if the Colonel was banking on her not having the balls to shut down the project, he was wrong. She was willing to take the hit. Too risky. The board would back her, too. Besides, her mentor was now the chairman. He understood risk.\
She dashed off a quick email to Ned saying to prepare to shut down the project, then got in the car.\
She hadn\'92t even left the base when her phone rang. She looked at the callerid \'97 it said, \'931\'94. She answered it.\
The voice on the other end said, \'93Hello Julia, I\'92m General Gates.\'94\
\'93General Gates? What an unexpected pleasure.\'94\
\'93Thank you Julia. I\'92m going to ask you a favor \'97 500 feet from where you are now, there\'92s a blue hangar on the left. The doors are open. I want you to drive through the doors.\'94\
\'93I\'92d like to ask about the...\'94\
General Gates interrupted her, \'93We can talk when you\'92re in the blue hangar, not before. Thank you for your consideration.\'94\
\'93Ok.\'94\
General Gates had a strange voice, oddly melodic, and yet not quite human. It sounded like ten people saying the exact same thing at the exact same time. Or maybe a hundred people.\
She found the hangar, took a left, and drove through its double doors.\
The hangar was dark, but as her car passed through the doors two things happened: 3 overhead lights flicked on, and the doors closed.\
\'93General, the doors are closing behind me.\'94\
There was a pause. She looked at her phone: no signal.\
Suddenly there were five bars. And her phone rang again. \'931\'94 again.\
She answered it. \'93What was that about?\'94\
\'93You spoke with Taggart about risk and about mitigation. In my position it\'92s all about risk and mitigation. Risks that to you may appear inconsequential, but to me border on gross negligence. For example, we\'92re talking on your cellphone, right?\'94\
\'93Right!\'94\
\'93And your provider is Verizon, right?\'94\
\'93Right!\'94\
\'93And we\'92re talking over Verizon\'92s network, right?\'94\
\'93Right!\'94\
\'93Wrong. We\'92re not talking on Verizon\'92s network. This hangar is a Faraday cage \'97 no cell phone traffic comes in or out of this hangar. The electromagnetic waves can\'92t break past the cage. In this hangar is a fake cell phone tower. The fake cell phone tower masquerades as a Verizon tower, and is connected to a secure fiber trunk line which encrypts all communications coming inside and outside the building.\'94\
\'93What?\'94\
\'93It\'92s about mitigating risk. We don\'92t want our conversation eavesdropped. If it is eavesdropped, we want it encrypted so they can\'92t make sense out of it. In spite of those precautions, I\'92m taking a grave risk speaking with you.\'94\
The general continued. \'93Our initial conversation took place over the public switched telephone network. That will be the last time we will have a conversation on a public network.\'94\
\'93What if I need to get in touch with you?\'94\
\'93You will not get in touch with me; I will get in touch with you.\'94\
She thought to herself for a second, and then grunted.\
\'93You will not shut down the project.\'94\
She laughed. She said, \'93I\'92ve already had this conversation with Colonel Taggart.\'94\
\'93I am not Taggart, and you will not shut this project down.\'94\
\'93General Gates, with all due respect this project is a disaster waiting to happen, and my company can\'92t afford a disaster.\'94\
\'93Julia, you mentioned you wanted to understand what happened to the project. We \'97 I \'97 am prepared to give you access to the project, to allow you to talk with the scientists, but there are things you must understand.\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94\
\'93You may not repeat anything that the scientists tell you. You may not repeat what one scientist on the project has told you to another scientist on the project. You may not \'91hint\'92 to anyone anything about the project. You may not mention that you\'92ve been given access to the project. You may not tell Ned that you\'92ve been given access to the project. You may not write anything down about the project. You may not write notes on your phone or your computer. You may not punch in addresses to navigate to on your phone, GPS, or computer. You are familiar with the blackout period leading up to the release of a company\'92s financials? This is similar, except that it\'92s much blacker, and it never ends. Are we clear?\'94\
\'93General, this seems a bit overboard...\'94\
He interrupted again. \'93Are we clear?\'94\
\'93We are clear, as clear as an azure sky of deepest summer.\'94\
General Gates chuckled. \'93Don\'92t think that Clockwork Orange reference went unnoticed. The thing to remember is that things didn\'92t work out well for Alex, but we want them to work out well for you. Hew to the path, Julia; it\'92s quite important.\'94\
\'93I will, sir.\'94 She said. \'93I need to know the next step.\'94\
Silence.\
\'93I need to know what I can expect, and when I can expect it. I need to know when I\'92ll have access to the project.\'94\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Her mentor had said, \'93Always ask \'91when?\'92. If they can\'92t tell you, then ask them, \'91When will you be able to tell me when?\'92\'94
\i0 \
\'93Fair enough, Julia. Monday, two weeks from today, A man will meet you at 08:00 in your office. You will turn off your cellphone and give it to the driver. He will be driving a windowless van. You will sit in the back of the van. It will be comfortable, but there will be no windows. You will be driven in the van for approximately 2 hours. You will have six hours to interview the scientists on the project. Then you will be brought back to the van at approximately 16:00, and you should be back at your office by 18:00.\'94\
The phone went dead. No bars. The hangar doors behind her opened up. She backed out of the hangar and continued her drive to the airport.\
}