{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Fairbanks was beautiful in the summer. He liked landing in the airport in mid-day: it allowed him time to drive down US 3 and visit Hunter before sundown. After sundown \'97 well, it would be difficult finding the cabin in the dark, even with no clouds and a full moon.\
He drove by the old Early Warning System Base. The closest dish was still pointing at New Jersey \'97 they had never bothered pointing it back. No reason to.\
He went off road for a hundred yards and found the old truck. He parked next to it, opened his glove compartment, and threw the keys in. Then threw his wallet in, too. And finally his cellphone \'96 there was no coverage in this part of Alaska. He left the doors unlocked, and began walking to the cabin.\
He knocked on the door. No answer.\
\'93If you\'92re in there Hunter please don\'92t point the shotgun at me, I didn\'92t like it the first time.\'94\
Hunter opened the door, the shotgun in his hand pointing down. \'93Max?\'94\
Hunter had more gray in his beard; otherwise he looked the same.\
\'93I decided to take you up on your offer to visit. I would have called, but you don\'92t have a phone, and I couldn\'92t write because you don\'92t have an address, so I figured I\'92d just come.\'94\
\'93Well, I\'92m glad you decided to come \'97 always good to see a frien\'92. It\'92s smart of you to visit in the summer. Don\'92t get me wrong \'97 I like the winters, but they\'92re not gentle here. No, not at all. I gotta check my traps. Why dontcha come along? See the forest.\'94\
They walked through the Alaska wilderness. Some traps had animals in them, which Hunter promptly dispatched.\
\'93I don\'92t like \'91em to have a slow death, starvin\'92 \'92n strugglin\'92 to break free; that\'92s why I check the traps every day \'96 to put them out of their misery before it gets really bad. I can see the look in your eyes, tryin\'92 not to judge. Lemme ask you somethin\'92: you eat cheesburgers?\'94\
Max nodded.\
\'93I\'92m killin\'92 these creatures, and I see it upsets you. But you know when you eat that cheeseburger, you\'92re killin\'92 a cow, right? You know that? You don\'92t see it, but it\'92s happenin\'92. So you eat the cheesburger an\'92 pretend the killin\'92 ain\'92t happenin\'92. But it\'92s happenin\'92, as sure as day \'96 cheeseburgers don\'92t grow on trees.\'94\
Hunter efficiently killed the ferret in the trap. Max winced.\
\'93We shy away from it. Killin\'92 ain\'92t pretty, so we ignore it. We don\'92t like to thing about things like killin\'92 and dyin\'92, so we make sure other people kill our food for us, an\'92 we hide our old people away in homes and preten\'92 they\'92re not gonna die because we\'92re not thinkin\'92 about \'91em. An\'92 we go on, thinkin\'92 that things\'92ll go on forever, no killin\'92 or dyin\'92, but they won\'92t go on forever, and one day we\'92re gonna meet our maker, and that is the ugly truth.\'94\
\'93Times I think everyone should kill their food just once, to appreciate it. It\'92s a powerful thing, killin\'92 another creature. It puts me in my place, realizin\'92 how small I am. Makes me grateful for food. It sounds hokey, but every time I do it I thank the creature for feedin\'92 me, for givin\'92 me its pelt. Killin\'92 \'97 you need to honor it, not preten\'92 it don\'92t happen.\'94\
Hunter was quiet a long time. \'93I dunno what made me say all that. I saw the look in your face, and wanted to explain what it\'92s like out here, here in the wilderness. There\'92s not much room for pretendin\'92 out here.\'94\
Max nodded. Max didn\'92t know it at the time, but in two weeks he\'92d become a vegetarian.\
Later that evening Hunter said, \'93Let me show you the Northern Lights. You probably seen pictures, but it ain\'92t the same as the real thing.\'94\
They watched the lights, beautiful green sheets descending from the sky. Quiet, majestic.\
\'93You ever hear from Julia?\'94\
Max shook his head. \'93I think she\'92s gone for good.\'94\
Hunter grunted.\
\'93I think she went to the Sun; that\'92s where she said she was going. I don\'92t think there was anything for her here \'97 I think she outgrew us. I\'92m not supposed to talk about it \'97 it\'92s classified and everything.\'94\
Hunter made a show of looking around: \'93Not much government here.\'94\
They stared at the lights.\
\'93They fabricated a story about Julia, said she suffered an acute reaction to the process. They weaved some truth into it \'97 that she had performed the process on herself, without supervision. And they lied about the remainder. The company lives on \'97 they have a new CEO now. And they decided to spin-off the division that I\'92m in, the one that does projects for the government. They said it wasn\'92t profitable enough, that it was difficult to manage, and that it opened the company to lawsuits. Those were the official reasons. But there are other reasons, too. Julia was well-liked, and when she was lost, well, I guess it soured them to the division.\'94\
\'93I couldn\'92t tell anyone what really happened. I pretended that she died. But in some ways Julia is truly dead: what she became \'97 I don\'92t even know how to describe it \'97 is something completely different the Julia we knew. The Julia we knew is gone.\'94\
Long silence.\
\'93I ain\'92t never met Julia.\'94\
\'93You would have liked her. She was kind. Sure, she was hard-working, focused, smart, but she was also kind.\'94\
\'93Sounds like a good woman.\'94\
Max nodded.\
The Northern Lights were an especially bright green.}