{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 She knew it was going to get ugly.\
It was always ugly. Even when it wasn\'92t ugly, when things went her way, it was never perfect \'97 it never 
\i quite
\i0  went her way.\
And that seemed to bring out the best in her. She thought of her sister: fat, dumb, and happy. Well, maybe not happy. Her sister\'92s husband had let himself go after the second kid. Her sister would say, \'93I married a Greek God, but now I\'92m married to a goddamn Greek!\'94 and then laugh.\
But there was an undercurrent of dissatisfaction. Sure, her sister laughed, but that didn\'92t mean everything was fine. Her husband had gotten fat. And, along with the fat, came a certain negligence with regard to grooming: his clothing was rumpled, he always wore t-shirts, and his shaving had become inconsistent (which is not a problem if you\'92re a blond Norwegian, but is a problem if you\'92re a swarthy Greek).\
Her sister\'92s husband looked like an overworked Brooklyn building superintendent.\
She was surprised how easily her sister had come to terms with it. At times she wanted to shake her and say, \'93Lori, look at him, look at Dino! Is that who you want to be married to? Do you want to be married to a sweaty fat bald cigar-smoker who on a good day remembers to shower?\'94\
God, Dino drove her crazy. He was handsome once. And quite the clothes horse.  When he was in his twenties and thirties he was an Adonis: chiseled looks, and deep brown eyes you could swim in. But halfway in his forties things took a sharp left turn for the worse. He hadn\'92t aged well.\
It wasn\'92t about the aging. Well, it was a bit about the aging, but also how you dealt with it. Some people just gave up and let themselves go. But it didn\'92t have to be that way. A small number of people were fighters. Yes, your body wants to change shape, and your skin wants to wrinkle, and your hair wants to turn white, but those are things you can fix, and, if not fix, mitigate.\
She had taken care of herself. It wasn\'92t easy, she\'92d grant that. Gym every morning: treadmill, bicycle, and then the half-hour with her trainer.\
She felt her face. Her forehead was smooth \'97 the Botox was working well, and next treatment was three weeks away \'97 but she was beginning to get a turkey wattle. Botox wouldn\'92t fix that. Maybe she should try the surgery, a little nip-and-tuck to put things in their place. She had to be careful though \'97 the last thing she wanted was to become one of those grotesque people who take plastic surgery too far. Still have the surgery, but keep a little bit of wattle, not too much.\
When she was twenty she would look at the plastic-surgeries-gone-wrong section of the gossip rags, gripped with a morbid fascination. \'93I\'92ll never get plastic surgery! It\'92s so fake \'97 I\'92ll never do it! I\'92ll grow old gracefully, like Grace Kelly.\'94\
It\'92s easy to make such pronouncements when you\'92re twenty years old and your skin is as smooth as a Wisconsin lake at early dawn, but your perspective changes when your in your forties and your skin is starting to sag and wrinkle.\
Especially if you\'92re a woman. Aging is particularly cruel to women. She harbored no illusions about that, the sudden decline in attention from men. Her friend had put it well, \'93I feel like I\'92m starting to disappear.\'94\
The changes were small at first \'97 she didn\'92t get asked for your phone number as much, the checkout guys didn\'92t talk to her as long, the customers were drunker when they began hitting on her. The attention to which she had become accustomed began to evaporate, and evaporate quickly.\
She was ambivalent about the drop in attention. After all, the majority of the attention had been unwanted. She became acutely aware that there were a subset of men who made it a practice to hit on every woman they met. She quickly learned to spot them, and to gently discourage them, sometimes not so gently.\
She looked at her hands. The hands were the give-aways. That\'92s the trick the carnies used to judge people\'92s age \'97 the hands. Over time the hands lose their baby fat, and the bones and veins become more pronounced. And the big liver spot didn\'92t help.\
She was in the elevator. Up, up, and up. Why were the executive offices always near the top floor? It meant executives spent more time in elevators. In a perfectly efficient world, the executives would be in the ground floor. It was about status: the view overlooking the city, the corner office. It was easy to dismiss these things as unimportant, as her father the engineer had a tendency to do. But these status symbols were important to some people, and thus they were important to her, too.\
She got off at her floor. She checked her phone: one minute early. Good. She detested being late. It was a lack of discipline that made people late. Her sister was chronically late. It didn\'92t mean her sister was a bad person \'97 quite the opposite: her sister was a wonderful person. She loved her sister. But loving someone didn\'92t mean you turned a blind eye to their faults.  She opened the door. Everyone was there. Good. They were a good team. It was going to be a tough meeting.\
\'93Gentlemen,\'94 she said, and then nodded to Rebecca, \'93Lady.\'94\
She took her seat. \'93We\'92re all here. Let\'92s start, shall we?\'94\
The meeting began. A legal issue in a business unit, which, if not handled correctly, could force her to resign or, even worse, sink the company.\
A bull-necked man was talking. The head of global sales, a big blustering man. He began talking louder, then pointed at Ned, the man who ran the business unit with the legal problem.\
She stepped in, \'93You raise a good point: it\'92s worthwhile to explore what led up to this issue, and we\'92ll examine that in a later meeting. Let\'92s focus on how to fix the problem right now.\'94\
Dealing with the bull-necked man was tricky \'97 he was an alpha male-type. It meant he needed to be put in his place periodically. Surprisingly, it seemed that he 
\i wanted
\i0  to be put in his place: it confirmed the existing hierarchy. But putting him in his place needed to be done with the utmost delicacy, without impugning his character or diminishing his dignity. He was good at what he did, and it would be unfortunate to lose him.\
It helped that she was a woman; he didn\'92t feel threatened by a woman, but he had had a hard time being put in his place by a man. The previous CEO was a man, and that made for some very rocky meetings: he had resigned on at least one occasion.\
Yes, that was the dirty secret of feminism: sometimes being a woman made it 
\i easier
\i0  to be the leader of men because it short-circuited the male competitive drive.\
The meeting continued. She mostly listened. She did step in once when she sensed the beginning of a feeding frenzy around Ned. She didn\'92t like when people ganged up on each other. It was bad for business and rarely accomplished anything.  There was a hint of savage when it happened, and she had a strong dislike of anything savage.\
In some ways handling the problem was easy because there were many constraints.  Obeying the law, for example. They didn\'92t have a choice. They needed to appear as cooperative as possible, so no document-shredding, no email-deleting. The best approach was always, \'93We\'92re sorry, we made a mistake, we\'92re going to do our best to make it better.\'94\
The solution was simple: they were going to spend lots of money making things better. Lots of money. Not enough to bankrupt the company, but enough to hurt.  The bonuses were going to be small this year, and everyone in the room knew that. There was an undercurrent of sadness and loss in the room.\
Her mentor, the previous CEO, had said to her, \'93Remember: when you have a problem, and it can be fixed with money, you don\'92t have a problem \'97 you have an expense.\'94 Right now she had an expense. A very big expense.\
The purpose of the meeting had been to achieve consensus, and consensus had been achieved.\
The meeting adjourned. She asked, \'93Ned, could you please stay?\'94\
Everyone else in the room had left. Ned began stammering, saying that something about waivers being signed.\
She waved her hand, \'93Let\'92s not worry about the waivers for a minute. I have a few questions about what happened.\'94\
Ned said that he couldn\'92t talk about it, that it was a project for the Department of Homeland Security and that it was classified.\
She said, \'93Ned, I\'92m not asking you to reveal anything that\'92s classified. I\'92m merely trying to understand exactly what happened.\'94\
He seemed relieved, then nervous.\
She said simply, \'93The notes we have indicated that someone died. Did someone die?\'94\
He said, \'93Yes. No. We\'92re not sure.\'94\
\'93Was there a specific person or persons who died?\'94\
\'93There was one specific person who may or may not have died.\'94\
\'93Is there a body?\'94\
He looked pained. \'93Julia, I can\'92t tell you without clearance. I want to tell you, but I can\'92t.\'94\
\'93Really?\'94\
\'93Really.\'94\
It was at that moment that she decided she was going to learn more about what exactly this project was. She knew that this was irresponsible on her part, that she was tasked with running a company and the last thing she should allow herself to do is get lost in the weeds to satisfy her curiosity. Two weeks.  She\'92d time-box her exploration to two weeks, so it wouldn\'92t get out of hand.\
\'93Ned,\'94 she asked, \'93how do I go about getting top-secret clearance?\'94}